It is kind of a murky data picture.
>> We need to be careful of some of these
cracks in inflation data.
>> There are certainly signs that the labor
market is more fragile than it looks.
What we're really waiting for is this
pass through of inflationary impact.
>> I really don't know that we're at the
cusp of something dramatic happening to
this economy. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, just short of all-time
highs, investors looking ahead to Q2
earnings from the Max 7's Tesla and
Alphabet. Fed officials enter the
blackout period, leaving the president
waiting for rate cuts as the European
Union is facing down a trade deadline,
hoping for the best. and preparing for
the worst.
>> It sets up a real question of how do
different regions respond to harding
hardening rhetoric coming out of the
Trump administration as we get closer to
the latest deadline of August 1st,
especially given the fact that there are
political considerations at home and
we'll talk about that with Japan in
particular with the European Union. A
big question here. Do they go nuclear
and really go to the option of
retaliation with measures such as taxing
tech giants from the United States in
response to levels that are not uh a
plausible for them like 15 to 20%
tariffs.
>> Or will this White House just take the
win? Take the whimp. The EU based on our
reporting is prepared to accept an
unbalanced trade agreement here. Accept
that 10% tariff and walk away. But it
seems like based on what we're hearing
over in Europe that the Americans are
pushing for more and pushing for more.
And what you have right now is actually
no movement, a ton of activity. Once
again, you're going to have negotiators
likely in Washington DC. Yesterday,
Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik was on
Face the Nation and said, "I just got
off the phone with them." And when he
said when he was asked about are what if
they go after Boeing? What if they go
after Kentucky bourbon? What if they go
after soybeans in Louisiana, the home
state of Speaker Mike John, he says,
"They're not going to do it. They're not
going to do it." It is this moment that
the US is trying to extract whatever
they can with 11 days to go. You say no
movement. No movement in trade talks. No
movement in this market. Very close to
all-time highs. Deutsche Bank this
morning. We expect another leg up in
equities. This came from Mike Wilson of
Morgan Stanley. What did he say? We
think dips are meant to be bought.
You're seeing that on repeat across Wall
Street,
>> which has led to this FOMO type of
environment, a fear of missing out,
which has legs of its own when you start
having people pile in just because
they're worried about not getting the
sort of gains that you potentially could
get. I just wonder if people are getting
a little bit too excited about looking
past the noise that we have seen
throughout the year in terms of policy
shifting under the hood and just looking
to this industrial revolution tied to
investing in new tech and that I think
is one of the things that's really
driving a lot of optimism about capex
etc even amid all of the headlines that
we talk about every day that exhaust us
>> the data has been okay headline data CPI
PPI has been okay we can talk about the
details through the program retail sales
and jobless claims last have been okay.
Corporate America continues to say all
the right things and there's still a
strong bias of this Federal Reserve to
cut interest rates. Even with that
strong bias to cut interest rates, the
tension continues to build between
Chairman Powell and the president of the
United States and over the weekend throw
in the Treasury Secretary Scott Besson.
President over the weekend came out with
a truth social post following this Wall
Street Journal article that said,
"Treasury Secretary Scott Besson laid
out his argument on why the president
should not even consider firing Ch Fed
chair Jay Powell." And this is what
Trump has to say. Quote, "Nobody had to
explain that to me. I know better than
anyone what's good for the market." So
basically, it's almost an
acknowledgement from this president that
he knows the negative impact on the
market and the economy if he was to fire
Jay Pal. So then the question is why
does he continue to bring it up every
single day?
>> Is Besson out of the race now based on
those comments?
>> Besson's out of the race just simply
because there's no one who can replace
Scott Besson who's currently in Japan
trying to smooth over whatever kind of
mess is going to come from that
election. And meanwhile you have a
situation where ultimately he is the
only adult in the room. A lot of people
think I don't want to get there but I
just went there. I mean, there's a real
question here about whether there will
be credibility for the next appointee to
be the chair of the Federal Reserve
given all of the rhetoric and given all
of the political speculation, regardless
who it is.
>> Live from New York, welcome to the
program. Looking ahead to a quiet week,
we hope at least the schedule's light.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 positive
by about a quarter of 1%. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Lori Calvacina
of RBC with stocks trading very close to
all-time highs. Patrick Mckenry as the
US trade team hardens its stance and
Angelo Zeno looking ahead to big tech
earnings. We begin this hour with stocks
trading near record highs ahead of a big
week for tech earnings. Lori Calverina
of RBC writing, "We're lifting our
year-end price target to 6250." We
reviewed what we've learned from early
reporters, which makes us think it's too
early to stop worrying about tariff
impacts. Lori joins us now for more.
Lori, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> I was going to characterize this as a
reluctant raise from you and the team.
How would you describe things? Look, I I
just think at certain point you realize
investors are thinking a little bit
differently than you are and you adjust
and move on. And that's what we did with
our target raise last week. Um, you
know, I was basically living on the road
in June talking to investors all over
the country and I heard time and time
again people felt like they paid the
price for whatever economic wobbles we
were going to have, whatever inflation,
you know, kind of challenges we were
going to have back in April and it was
time to move on to 2026. And I'll tell
you, the first few times I heard that,
my jaw dropped. But as you start hearing
it from more and more people, you know,
of different backgrounds, you realize
you've got to bake that into your
thinking. And so that's essentially what
we did. Um, and one of the things we did
was we removed sort of our policy
assumption. We had been telling people,
you know, we had been baking in sort of
a businessfriendly backdrop at the back
at the beginning of the year. We weren't
baking in sort of 2018 type scenarios,
you know, to our more recent ones. We
didn't feel like that was appropriate
anymore. So we took that out and we put
in a test that evaluated how stocks
perform ahead of the e economic
environment people think we're going to
get next year. And the result of the
math is that it pushed the numbers up.
>> It's a big question I think for all of
us around the table. How do you price in
26 without resolving policy issues in
25?
>> Well, that's a great question and I
really pushed hard on that. And you
know, I I do think there is an issue. If
you go back to April 8th and we saw that
growth scare low, that 18.9%
that was baking in some pretty ownorous
stuff at that moment in time. What we've
heard from corporate America since then,
I would say, is not off to the races by
any stretch of the imagination. The same
way the stock market, you know, has been
kind of off to the races. But I do think
corporates are doing their best to
manage through this issue. We need a lot
more detail from them, especially on
inventories going forward. But at this
point, if I think back really to the
first trade war back in 2018, I mean,
companies have been tested time and time
again. And they're taking a lot of pride
in their ability to manage through. And
so we have continued to hear that from
corporate America. Now, I'll warn you,
John, it's not all easy. I think this is
going to be somewhat messy in this
reporting season because not everyone is
going to have that ability to execute.
and some of the early reporters did not
and they got punished for it in terms of
their stock prices. But I do think
generally if you're kind of zooming out
um the S&P companies are are really
trying to manage through this best they
can.
>> You say you removed your attempt to
quantify what policy can mean for the
market. So what are you left with when
you look at Washington? Do you just
think it's so uncertain that you can
absolutely ignore it? What's the risk in
that?
>> Well, look, I think it, you know, before
we sort of had the typical kind of
businessfriendly environment. We had
something more ownorous before. So the
answer is something in between and I'm
not quite sure what number you put on
that in between but I do think you know
that there are different uh what's the
right word crosswinds right you've got
some tailwinds you've got some headwinds
and as investors we're going to be
battling that out any given day and the
stock price um but we do know that
investors are trying to take this
long-term issue and I'll tell you an
Marie the other thing that sort of
cemented this in my head and I think I
was I I was talking with someone on
Bloomberg it may have been all of you
around this time um but looking at the
Middle East situation I mean I was
really I I didn't think that that was
going to necessarily tank the market,
but I thought that we might have at
least gotten a 5% draw down. And what I
really heard from investors, you know,
on some calls we did um was really a
desire to look longer term on that issue
as well. When it comes to how Trump
right now views the market over the
weekend, he was talking about no one
needs to explain anything to him,
especially when it comes to the firing
of J. Powell. He went on to say, "If it
weren't for me, the market wouldn't be
at record highs right now." Well, if it
weren't for him, would the markets
actually be higher? because the market
is still at least some investors likely
pricing in an the question of an
independent Fed when what is going on
with tariffs. The only real certainty is
the one big beautiful bill in
deregulation, right? And I think
deregulation is something if we just
kind of take each of those individually.
I think deregulation is obviously a
positive for financials. Um our analysts
have also pegged it as a positive for
energy though there al also are some
offsetting issues with the lower oil
price um which has been a goal of this
administration as well. And so you know
that impacts profitability. It makes it
somewhat complicated, but generally what
I've told people is I have a hard time
knowing how to model deregulation in
terms of what dollar value that's worth
to earnings. It feels like a tailwind,
but a bit of a vague one to me. Um, the
one big beautiful bill, I mean, if we
think about that and Lisa, your comments
on capex earlier, I don't know that
people are necessarily in my
conversations at least, I I think the AI
bullishness is there. I don't think that
that has changed or if you were a
skeptic, that hasn't changed either. But
I'm hearing a lot about bonus
depreciation and how that might spur
plain old-fashioned capex. Um I'm
watching out for that. I've gotten mixed
feedback on that from my analysts. So I
think we keep an eye on that as well. If
you think though, Amory, and and I think
this is sort of one great lens to look
at this through. If you look at
consensus GDP forecast, and that's a big
driver of revenue on earnings, we're
stuck in the one mid% range. Whether
you're looking at RBC views or consensus
views, back at the beginning of the
year, that was at 2%. So that's just not
back to where it was. and inflation
numbers are generally up as well, which
weighs on your multiples. So, I do think
that we have endured some pressures
here. And frankly, I got some questions
even before this target race. Why aren't
you just going back to your 6600 uh back
in January? And I've been very adamant
with people. This is not the same world
that we were in back in January.
>> I'm so glad you could make it in because
I know that around this time you
typically have your head buried in all
the earnings calls and just parsing
through all of the transcripts and what
we're hearing from companies doesn't
match what we're feeling in markets.
something you pointed out. Does that
matter or is that just a whole bunch of
corporate executives sandbagging us
until next quarter?
>> So I think it matters in the sense that
if I look at the soft data and we always
like the Duke CFO survey because it
comes out right before earnings and it
kind of gives us a good sense of the
tone ahead of things. We when we look at
that when we look at a couple of these
other seuite surveys that have come out
recently they haven't seen the same
inflection that we saw in things like
NFIB or the conference board consumer
survey or the University of Michigan
survey. So, the stock market's been
queuing off those kind of consumer small
business sentiment inflections. But I
think it's important to note that even
in the data, if you're not just taking
my word for it, right, in terms of
reading all these things, even in those
soft data prints, we haven't seen that
same inflection. And I don't think
investors realize that.
>> Do you feel like we're all just
exhausted about being bearish and being
wrong? And so, you're hesitant to really
have anything that's below uh where
we're currently at? I think that you
have to listen to the market and you
have to listen to kind of what people
are telling you they're doing in terms
of making decisions. Um, and I was
funny. I was doing a dinner with Elsa
Leos, our FX strategist. Um, I forget
exactly what point this was. I think it
was late June. And she sort of made the
comment about, you know, what can you
forecast with any reasonable degree of
confidence? And it seems like there's
sort of, you know, at the time this
dinner we were talking at, you know,
kind of general uncertainty. Can we
forecast the next 3 months? that didn't
seem to be like a high confidence level,
but longer term people tended to have
more conviction on. So if you get these
wobbles in the market and you have a
stronger longer term view than shorter
term view, why not go ahead and trade on
that? That actually makes sense to me.
>> We was an interesting word then we all
getting exhausted of being too bearish.
>> We are tired from this debate at home
every night. Yes, exactly. I I think
look, there is a feeling that if you
start worrying about certain things over
and over again and people just start
slamming you for it and you're wrong,
you start to wonder, should I worry
about anything?
>> That's the drawing, the sucking in
sound, right?
>> That's the
>> Yeah, that's it.
>> That's FOMO. That's that's where we're
at right now.
>> Lori, it's good to see you.
>> Good to see you, too.
>> Thanks for being here, Lori Cavscino of
RBC. Looking ahead to lots of earnings
over the next week. It starts on
Wednesday with Tesla and Alphabet. The
following Wednesday, we'll hear from
Microsoft and Meta. Then next Thursday,
you'll hear from Amazon and Apple. Then,
as Lisa said just last week, in 10 years
time on August 27th, you'll hear from
Nvidia. They've got to fix that, haven't
they?
>> I mean, come on. They're like the key
player here to give us a sense of AI
investment. And they don't come until we
basically started in Q3 earning season.
So, at a certain point, you have to
wonder, okay, are they really just
trying to be different? Do they need to?
Jensen Hang, come on, be the rock star.
Put on your yellow leather jacket and
come out just a couple weeks.
>> By August 27th, we'll be pricing in
2028, won't we? In equity markets,
equity futures on the S&P positive here
by a third of 1% with an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahiara Island.
Hey Har.
>> Good morning, John. President Trump and
Xiinping are reportedly expected to meet
at or before the apex summit in October.
The South China Morning Post sites
sources saying Trump could make a stop
in China on his way to the summit in
South Korea or they could meet on the
sidelines. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that Trump has been dialing
down his aggressive tone with China in
hopes of securing a meeting and a trade
deal. Meanwhile, Stantis shares are
falling in eur European trading nearly
1.7%. The automaker reported a $2.7
billion net loss in the first half due
to restructuring expenses, weak sales,
and the impact of US tariffs. Analysts
had expected a small profit and because
of the trade uncertainty the company has
not yet issued financial guidance for
this year and Microsoft server software
was exploited by unidentified hackers.
The US cyber security and infrastructure
security agency said hackers access file
systems and internal configurations. In
response, Microsoft said it released a
new security patch to mitigate active
attacks. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhira. Thank you. More from Yahara in
about 30 minutes from now. Up next on
the program, pushing for a deal.
>> Look, the president and the European
Union, these are the two biggest trading
partners in the world, talking to each
other. We'll get a deal done. I am
confident we'll get a deal done.
>> Up next on the program, the former
Republican Congressman Patrick Mckenry,
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[Music]
Brammo said it. Julian Emanuel of Everor
agrees. FOMO has begun. In his note over
the weekend, reflected by a lot of the
research on Wall Street this morning. We
think dips are meant to be bought. Mike
Wilson and Morgan Stanley looking for
another leg higher over at Deutsche Bank
in this equity market. Here's your leg
higher. Equity futures on the S&P. Firma
by a third of 1% on the NASDAQ, up a
third of 1% on the Russell Small caps,
up by 0.6.
Under surveillance this morning, pushing
for a deal.
>> Look, the president and the European
Union, these are the two biggest trading
partners in the world talking to each
other. We'll get a deal done. I am
confident we'll get a deal done. Okay?
And it will be great for America because
the president has the back of America.
So I think all these key countries will
figure out it is better to open their
markets to the United States of America
than to pay a significant tariff. Here's
the latest this morning. The commerce
secretary Howard Latnik hopeful the US
can make a trade deal with the EU before
the August 1st deadline. Sources telling
us here at Bloomberg that EU envoys are
preparing to meet as early as this week
to plan for a possible no deal scenario.
Joining us now is Bloomberg's AA
Gardner. AA welcome to the program.
Let's just focus on this relationship
between the United States and Europe.
What's the state of play?
>> Well, the EU was one of several
countries that was surprised to receive
these letters from President Trump
despite the fact that they've been in
the midst of negotiations for weeks, if
not months, here. The president wrote to
the EU saying that they will face a 30%
tariff. And now we're two weeks away
from that August 1 deadline. And these
two counterparts, this block, which
includes, of course, many countries that
have different perspectives and making
this a lot more complicated, frankly,
for the block and the US are going to
continue to meet going into this week.
But some of the things that the EU is
looking for is really restrictions on
certain sectors like steel, aluminum,
aviation, some manufacturing equipment,
medical devices. But before this letter,
they had assumed that potentially that
they could see a 10% tariff. This is a
much higher tariff number that we saw
with the president's letter. And this is
something that major trading partners
are sort of having to expect now.
They're going to expect these unbalanced
agreements. Some countries have 0%
tariffs the US much higher and this
potentially could be the case. And this
is the scenario that the EU is gearing
up for. And they have said from the
beginning that they would retaliate if
the US puts tariffs that they are not
comfortable with. And that is something
that the US is certainly going to have
to expect. But it comes with a lot of
risk cuz we saw with China that the US
will retaliate at one point. Of course,
China's tariffs were as high as 100%.
>> As we know, these are self-imposed
deadlines and these deadlines can
change. How seriously a trading partners
taking that August 1st deadline?
>> Well, Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik
said yesterday, this is a hard deadline.
He says that they're going to continue
to take calls. they'll be open to
negotiate after that August 1 deadline.
But he says tariffs will be imposed on
that day. And so if you take this
commerce secretary at his word, that is
the deadline. But of course, we've seen
many times in the past that deadline has
moved.
>> Gardner of Bloomberg down in Washington.
Aa, thank you. How seriously is this
market taking this August 1st deadline?
>> Scott Bessant told us not to care about
at least the one with regards to China.
Uh saying that that August 12th
deadline, h don't weren't telling
markets, don't actually think about that
so much. and we've seen it push back
again. At the same time, does the
spectre of the taco threat kind of hang
over President Trump? He wants to show
that he's serious about his deadlines.
And this is the reason why the market's
just numb and going on vacation.
>> Well, if you are negotiating, you have
to stick to your guns in order to get
the most out of the negotiation. But
what I would say is that what I've heard
from trading partners, they say if that
if they are at the tail end of these
talks, they are basically being told by
this White House, stay in good faith and
we will let you extend. which basically
means that every deadline that this
White House comes out with is fluid.
>> Joining us now to extend the
conversation, the former Republican
Congressman Patrick Mckenry, also the
former chair of the House Financial
Services Committee. Patrick, welcome to
the program, sir. Let's just talk about
these deadlines and the posture of the
White House right now negotiating with
trade partners all around the world. How
seriously should we take that August one
deadline?
>> I think I think it's been said already.
I mean, two things can be true at once.
Uh the deadline is serious. It is
meaningful. The market should ceue to
this. Trading partners should cue to
this. Uh but this white house has
maximum uh leeway to extend. Um and each
trading partner is in a unique position
with the United States. And so much of
that has to do with the individual tone
of the negotiations that we are not
privy to. It's done behind closed doors.
Is a real question about uh the the the
notion of goodwill. And the notion of
goodwill is a judgment call. And so this
complicates really what uh what we're
going to see over the next uh 30 60 90
days. Um and each one of the trading
partners are in such a significantly
different position and how those uh
conversations have gone behind closed
doors.
>> Well, when it comes to an ally like the
European Union, you were in Congress
alongside Speaker McCarthy when there's
a lot of emphasis on the China Select
Committee. Is there damage being done
with all this job boating with allies
like the European Union, like Japan,
even though most Republicans want to see
a firm stance when it comes to one
country only, and that's China?
>> Well, uh I think you're seeing that
President Trump has uh significant
leeway uh among Republican legislators
on Capitol Hill. Uh look uh the the
Republican party I got elected uh with
20 years ago was a free trading uh uh uh
party. Uh that has changed significantly
over this time. This president has uh
has maximum uh authority and leverage
with Republican legislators and that's
why you're seeing him get uh this long
rope uh in uh in negotiating these
deals. If the European Union though does
come back and retaliate with politically
sensitive goods like soybeans from
Speaker Mike Johnson's Louisiana, well
then we potentially see some Republicans
dial the White House and say, "Look, we
have some concerns about this,
especially when it comes to the
agricultural sector."
>> Well, they tried this. China tried this
in 2018,
2019. Uh this has already been this
playbook's already been done. I think
what these trading partners have done is
dialed this up significantly and trying
to be very specific about the
implications well the the impact that
they would have on individual states and
districts. Uh but I think there's a lot
of pain that legislators are willing to
take before they go against President
Trump. So I don't think it's going to
work out for these trading partners to
do it. I think it's going to be far
better to cue to what Secretary Bessant
has said publicly, what Secretary Lenik
has said publicly is be of goodwill and
you'll you'll get good treatment. Uh and
I think that that's what we need to
listen to more acutely uh than these
retalatory uh measures that other nation
states are are are listing out or making
the threats that they will they will
take these actions. Patrick, you alluded
to something there that I think is
really up for debate among a lot of
different publications and
prognosticators, which is unity in the
Republican party. And you said that it
does seem like Republicans will be
willing to take quite a bit of pain
before really speaking out against uh
what President is Trump is doing on
trade. Do you think that there are signs
of cracks in that unity in the
Republican party that have been growing
over the past few weeks that are
different and new and potentially have
ramifications for some of these policy
implications?
Uh the beatings will continue until
morale improves. Um no, I I don't think
uh I don't think you're I don't think
there are significant cracks. I think
Capitol Hill is is much more chaotic
right now uh to approach legislation uh
than it's been in in many years. Uh but
the results are there. Uh the president
got uh the crypto bill and the style and
form he wanted. Signed that on Friday.
He had the one big beautiful bill. He
signed it on July 4th. He said he wanted
to sign it on July 4th. He got to sign
it on the 4th of July. I think he's
getting what he wants out of policy
makers on Capitol Hill. Uh but uh in the
fall we not we have not only uh tariffs
and trade to deal with, but we have a
government a potential government
shutdown and negotiating through that is
going to be quite a significant
challenge for the administration and for
congressional Democrats who have uh the
ability to block government funding.
>> Patrick, appreciate your time, sir.
We'll catch up again soon. the former
Republican congressman there, Patrick
Mckenry. Republicans united on one issue
seemingly this from Seore this morning.
The Trump administration wants to visit
the Federal Reserve this week to review
its $2.5 billion renovation. Senate
Banking Chair Tim Scott in talks to
attend as well.
>> Well, is this the new way to sort of
curry favor with the president to try to
gang up on the Fed chair, especially if
you have any interest in being Fed chair
yourself or even, you know, potentially
just win political points? Why is this
what we're talking about? Honestly, I
just keep thinking about this. The
journal article, yes, this was something
that President Trump dismissed, but
realistically, the arguments that Scott
Bessett allegedly made have resonance.
They're going to cut rates, and what are
you going to actually accomplish if you
do kick them out?
>> The beatings continue. Coming up on the
program, Angela Zeno of CFR as tech
earnings kickoff this week. Plus, we'll
catch up with Danny Burgerer with your
morning movers as Stellantis stalls live
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Equity markets doing okay. Futures
positive by a quarter of 1% on the S&P
500. On the NASDAQ up again this morning
by a third of 1% bannable wager of UBS
with some push back. It's the wrong
reaction to look past these tariffs and
move on. When the inflation impact comes
through, hits real disposable income.
That's when I think markets will begin
to see this. There isn't much of it, but
there's some push back out there.
>> And it's coming at a time of valuations
that are resonant of levels and and
types of speed that we haven't seen
since 1999. We haven't seen it in the
data yet. And a lot of people expected
to see it by now. And because they
haven't seen it by now, they're
dismissing it as fiction. And that, I
think, is one of the reasons why we have
FOMO once again.
>> Well, we see it in the earnings. More
earnings still to come this week on
Wednesday from Tesla and from Alphabet.
We'll talk about that in just a moment.
And 3 hours away from the opening bell,
let's get you some morning movers. Let's
cross over to Danny Burger. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. We have a new entrance to the
S&P 500 and that is Jack Dorsey's tech
firm Block. A lot of passive money goes
into stocks that are added into the
index. You can see those shares up 9% in
the pre-market. It will be replacing
Hess, which finally after 20 months of
drama was acquired by Chevron.
Elsewhere, a little bit of sellside
action. Morgan Stanley upgrading both
Etsy and Pinterest together this
morning. Both those shares rallying 4.3%
for Pinterest, 3 and a.5% just
thereabouts for Etsy saying that
valuations for both of them look
attractive and trends are favorable for
them for this earning season and that
should be a catalyst for shares to go
even higher. Now the same can't be said
for Stellantis in terms of good
earnings. Was this the kitchen sink
moment for the new CEO booking a first
half loss of nearly $3 billion to be
specific specific 2.7? Analysts had
expected at least a small profit. That's
not what we got. We got a glimpse into
what the new CEO has to deal with going
forward. Everything from tariffs to
expensive cancellations of some of their
EV programs and lesser demand there. So
those ADRs down 1.6%. John,
>> too many brands, not enough focus.
Danny, thank you. More from Danny in the
next hour. Every single time we talked
to the company, we had that
conversation. Everything's on the table.
Everything's still on the table.
>> Well, I was driving this weekend. I saw
a Dodge. Who buys Dodge anymore? And I
was thinking to myself, this is part of
the problem. Why are we saying that when
we see a Dodge, even though we're not
saying that even when we see any kind of
Kia, particularly telides,
>> that one guy you saw? Basically,
>> that one guy. But we were It was It was
really noteworthy. It was more
noteworthy than a Tesla or a Camaro or
anything else. It was just notable.
>> Matt Miller as well, right? I think has
a Dodge, doesn't he? I think so. I think
I'll check in with Matt later. I'm sure
he does.
>> Really?
>> Equity futures this morning then
positive by a quarter of 1%, very close
to alltime highs on a radar this
morning. President Donald Trump
disputing a Wall Street Journal report
claiming Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
told him not to fire Fed chair Jay Pal.
Trump posting on Truth Social, quote,
"People don't explain to me, I explain
to them."
>> Noise versus signal. That's what I keep
coming back to. Why is he rebutting
this? Is it a point of pride? Nobody can
tell me what to do. Nobody has to
explain anything to me. I'm the smartest
guy in the room. Or is this to keep the
speculation ongoing to try to jawbone
the Fed into taking some sort of
position? That's the reason why the
story isn't going away. The markets
though have moved on and that's what
we're seeing today.
>> And when it comes to what Trump is
talking about in this Wall Street
Journal piece that he says is flatout
wrong, no one needs to explain to him is
Scott Bessant laid out a number of
issues impacting the economy, impacting
the markets. The fact that they might
just be cutting rates anyway, so you're
going to get what you want. And also the
legal hurdles. One thing though the
president potentially wants to do is he
want a scapegoat for the fact that there
was a poll over the weekend that about
70% of Americans do not think they are
focused enough on inflation and bringing
affordability back into place.
>> This market has moved on to Lisa's point
moved on to looking ahead to 2026
according to Lori Cavina of RBC. How can
you look to 26 without resolving the
policy issues of 2025? Here's one right
here. The EU is heading into another
week of trade negotiations with the US
but gearing up for the worst. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, the block
is preparing a retaliation plan to
respond to a possible no deal scenario.
>> And what you have right now in Europe is
a lot of Nick's feelings. You have
France, which basically wants to say,
"We're going to go as hard as using this
anti-coercion measure and do some of the
biggest retaliatory measures we can put
them on the table." Others, according to
our our reporting, are prepared to
stomach an unbalanced agreement just so
that they can get agreement in place,
stop the uncertainty, and get numbers in
place. What the US is looking at right
now is potentially even higher than 10%
and less carveouts. Can Europe stomach
that? That's the big question for the
next 11 days.
>> The winner is available to the US and to
the White House if they want to take it.
Europe is ready to take something,
accept something they weren't willing to
accept only a few months ago. Are they
going to take it or not?
>> You said that before and I picked up on
that. I thought that was a really astute
point, especially because Howard Lutnik
is saying they just want uh other
nations to open up trade to the United
States. Is that truly the goal? Well,
the goalposts keep moving and that's one
reason why Europe is preparing for other
outcomes. There's also the fact that
local elections matter for international
policies and we keep seeing that and
that's very relevant for Europe and
number of other regions.
>> Well, let's talk about one of those
regions. Let's talk about one of those
countries, Japan. The Japanese Prime
Minister Chagarro Oshiba is vowing to
stay on after his coalition fell three
seats short of an upper house majority,
marking the first time since 1955 that a
leader from the LDP will govern without
a majority in at least one legislative
body.
>> And it comes 11 days before that August
1st deadline that they're supposed to
come to some sort of trade agreement
with Scott Besson heading over to Japan
right now to discuss it with a later
leader that's effectively been neutered.
Right now, markets are breathing a sigh
of relief that the worst case scenario
didn't come to pass where he was forced
to step down. But you start talking
about fiscal policy. You start talking
about negotiations when it comes to uh
trade deals. You start talking about the
sea change that is inflation and how
much that has caused incumbent leaders
to be kicked out of office again and
again.
>> Policy gridlock used to be a good thing
for markets. Some of the issues that
these countries face now, is policy
gridlock still a good thing for markets?
It's a tricky question given the fact
that the world is moving on. Policy
gridlock is uh sort of a relic of a time
that was more stable than the one that
we're facing off with now. Right now,
Japan is facing off a fiscal crisis and
if they start cutting taxes, watch out
for those uh bond yields to surge.
>> That's the situation in Japan this
morning. Let's turn back to tech. Tesla
Alphabet kicking off big tech earnings
this week. Mandep Singh of Bloomberg
Intelligence joins us now for more.
Mandep, welcome to the program. Kicking
off Max 7 earnings, what are you and the
team looking for later in the week?
>> Well, we heard in the last 90 days that
the GPUs are melting a few times. So,
you know, clearly that beat and raise is
very important from all the cloud
hyperscalers especially Microsoft I mean
clearly they are the biggest
beneficiaries uh with open AI's models
doing really well. Um at the same time
the capex increase. So our framework now
is if the cloud revenue grows by let's
say 30 mid 30% then they will raise
their capex by a similar amount you know
30 to 35%. But from this point on, you
will see a matching of revenue growth
with capex growth. And that's the
framework we apply to all of the
hyperscalers except Meta which doesn't
have a cloud business. But you want to
see that inferencing show up in the
cloud revenue and that's where I think
Microsoft will do really well.
>> Mandy, when it comes to Alphabet,
there's a word that pops up all the
time, existential. Existential risk and
what that company is facing at the
moment. It's down on the year. It's had
a big rally off the low. I think we're
on an 8-day winning streak going into
earnings at the moment. What kind of
risk do that company face and are they
behaving in the same way that say Meta
is and Mark Zuckerberg which is behaving
as if they face an existential risk?
>> Well, look at the numbers. So, Chat GPT
is now doing 1 billion queries a day.
Compare that to an alphabet Google doing
about 14 to 15 billion queries a day. So
clearly you know chat GPT has made
inroads in terms of the search query
volume but we know chat GPT doesn't have
an ad model. So from that perspective,
Google still has a lot of levers to pull
on the search side, YouTube side, and
that will show up in the ad pricing this
quarter and you will see them at least
post inline numbers on search and all
other segments should outperform whether
it's YouTube or Google Cloud or Whimo
for that matter. But clearly everyone is
fixated on search because that's what
drives the bulk of the free cash flow.
>> Mandep Singh of Bloomberg Intelligence.
Mandandy, thank you. No doubt we'll
catch up with you on Wednesday and
beyond. Angelo Zeno of CFR has a buy
rating on shares of Alphabet at 210
price target. Angelo, welcome to the
program. That ad model at Alphabet, how
insulated is it right now?
>> Yes, thanks for having me. Uh, John, as
far as kind of the ad model is
concerned, I mean, listen, I I think um
they're doing a lot of great things as
far as what's going on across search as
well as YouTube. I'm integrating AI
across the the ecosystem. You've got AI
mode ramping here on search. AI
overviews. Um, so overall I think the
monetization potential looks pretty good
as far as um their ad based businesses
um and AI integrating across that
ecosystem. You know clearly there is a
risk as we kind of go on here over the
next couple of years. Eventually open AI
and others out there will probably have
some sort of adup supported models and
um that is you know clearly a a risk
here for Alphabet. So sitting here
today, I mean, we do think their ads uh
Google's ad supported businesses
probably grow around in line with the
broader digital ad market. Let's call it
high singledigit uh growth. But you
know, ultimately as we kind of go into
some of these forward-looking years,
2026, 2027, we're looking at the growth
pace of, you know, something like search
to grow at about half the pace of the
digital ad market just because you're
going to have some, you know, increasing
competitive pressures out there. Angelo,
are we underestimating the speed of the
adoption of open AI of chat GPT and some
of these algorithmic models that some
people find superior to uh the classic
search model? I mean, I was listening to
uh John and Mandeep talking and I'm
thinking to myself, I've known so many
people over the past six months that
have utterly transformed their workflow
because of chat GPT. Is the time frame a
little bit faster potentially than what
we're talking about?
>> I mean, potentially. I mean we I guess
we'll see here. I mean ultimately people
are doing search in and you know in a
different way than they have
historically and um but when we think
about um just overall what app alphabet
has you know across their ecosystem as
well I don't think it should be
underestimated. I think Gemini is an an
enormously powerful tool. I mean I'm I'm
personally a power user of Gemini. I do
love the fact that it's across their
entire ecosystem out there. there is an
advantage out there to that. I think
that Alphabet's getting extremely smart
um with Gemini. So, you know, I don't
think you can completely dismiss
Alphabet specifically and what they're
doing across the AI ecosystem. Not to
mention their infrastructure, I think,
is better than just about anyone else's
out there. But again, that being said, I
mean, maybe to your point with what
OpenAI is doing with Chad GPT and and
others out there as well, there are
going to be more options out there in
the market. And that is something that I
think you know as an analyst you can't
uh underestimate and you do have to
factor that into your future
assumptions. But we do expect you know
ultimately their adup supported
businesses to continue to grow. Um it's
just not going to be at the pace that
you know maybe you're seeing from you
know the market here over time because
of the the broadening out and greater
competitive pressures. A couple of
months ago, there was a skepticism on
Wall Street about the amount of money
that hyperscalers were spending on R&D
on capex and there was this question of
are they overspending? Meta had said we
can't spend enough. Do you think this
season you're going to see a rewarding
by investors of companies that increase
their capex spend dramatically or do you
think that that's going to be treated
with the same skepticism as a couple of
uh months ago? Well, I think what you're
actually going to see this earning
season, I I think you're going to see uh
capex spending plan uh plans sustained
and not increased. Um we actually saw
meta increase it last earning season as
far as their 2025 capex guidance. I
think you know Microsoft has actually
done a pretty good job here over the
last couple of quarters. Um essentially
kind of flatlining the capex number,
leveling it out. Um this is their year
end, so we'll kind of see what type of
guidance and outlook they decide to
provide here um for investors here over
the next year. But I actually think you
know uh for the most part you're going
to actually see uh more favorable return
uh ROI metrics across kind of some of
these uh cloud providers because of how
they're spending on the capex side of
things. They are shifting more towards
the server side of things um here over
the next couple of quarters and years
and and you know clearly the growth
piece is um you know starting starting
to kind of decelerate and level out a
little bit here. So I think kind of the
return um on investments are going to
see considerable improvement here not
only um over the next you know couple of
months but you know over the next couple
of years and I think um investors will
reward that maybe to your point. I think
the other important point here or item
to look out for here this earning season
is something along the lines or you know
looking at the opex side of things.
something that um these companies have
really been um you know holding kind of
leveling out here over the last couple
of years actually if you look at
employee headcount um whether it be from
uh Google Microsoft announcing recently
some of the their headcount reductions
um essentially down over the last kind
of two to three years flat to down and I
think it'll be interesting to kind of
see how these all these companies um
comment relative to what we've seen here
from Zuckerberg over the last couple of
uh weeks and months I think that's going
to be really an important story line as
well.
>> Angelo, appreciate it. Angelo Zena there
of CF. Big focus for us here at
Bloomberg doing more with less as some
of the world's biggest companies
>> at least fewer people, right? But is it
less investment? And that's sort of the
question. Meta's been a forefront leader
in terms of cutting staff, but then
increasing their capex. Is that repeated
by others?
>> What happened to the year of efficiency?
Now he's like going around like Stevie
Cohen making superstars.
>> Well, if he could invest in the Mets,
I'd be okay with it. I do think though
that going forward there is a question
of where you're investing. He tried
Meta, that didn't work. So now you've
got to invest in the physical
infrastructure of the world and how that
relates to technology and that's where
his mind really clearly is at.
>> A big week coming up for tech earnings.
Equity futures right now in the S&P
positive by a quarter of 1% with an
update on stories elsewhere with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara. Hey
Yhara.
>> Hi John. Israel has warned it will move
into a town in the heart of the Gaza
Strip for the first time. It had been
avoiding this town for fear of harming
hostages. Hamas, meanwhile, says almost
1,000 Palestinians have died while they
were waiting for aid. Meanwhile, shares
of Domino's Pizza are rising 5% in the
pre-market. The company's second quarter
revenue coming in at $1.15 billion,
slightly above the average analyst
estimates with same store sales growth
in the US, driving revenue higher.
Meanwhile, EPA's came in low came in
lower than expected at $3.81.
And Blackstone has pulled out of a bid
for a stake in Tik Tok's US operations.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg,
the firm has offered its potential share
to other investors in a consortium that
includes Oracle, Andre Horowitz, and
General Atlantic. Tik Tok is facing a
September deadline to find an American
owner or be banned in the US. That's
brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. The rolling 90-day
deadline,
>> Tik Tok extension after Tik Tok
extension.
>> Absolutely. It just keeps getting kicked
down the road when it comes to Tik Tok.
This can It's like, are they ever going
to come to an agreement? But
potentially, this is part of the grand
bargain. So maybe it'll come to an
agreement when Xi Jinping and Trump
finally sit down.
>> The latest deadline is September. Up
next on the program, the race to replace
Chair Pel.
>> Is it a position you would like?
>> If the president contacted me and said,
"I want you to serve, I would do it, but
he's not contacting me."
>> That conversation up next with Skylar
Montgomery Koig of Barclays from New
York. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
It's a nice quiet summer Monday.
>> Don't say that.
>> What's wrong with that? It's just that
we're so used to, you know, this hyper
stimulation that you're trying to sort
of dare the market into having some
>> You're jinxing it the second you say
it's quiet.
>> Trying to do anything. It's a nice quiet
summer Monday.
>> You know what you're trying to
>> hopefully we get a nice
>> You know what you've done
>> summer week.
>> You're trying to poke the bear.
>> Taking Friday off now. Just put that in
the diary.
>> You are.
>> I am.
>> I also futures on the S&P look like
this. Futures are positive by a quarter
of 1% up a third on the last night 100.
Under surveillance this morning. It's
the race to replace Chairman Pal.
>> Is it a position he would like? Is it
something he would like to do in the
future?
>> The president contacted me and said, "I
want you to serve." I would do it. But
he's not contacting me.
>> We'll see if he does.
>> If he says, "Chris, I want you to do the
job." I'll say yes. But he's not talking
to me. So that's it.
>> Here's the latest this morning. Fed
Governor Chris Waller in the mix to
replace Fed Chair Jay Pal. Skylar
Montgomery Kernig of Barkclay's writing,
"An early start for a more dovish shadow
Fed added to the greenback's wos, but in
the last couple of weeks, there are
signs of consolidation." Skylar joins us
now for more. Skylar, good morning.
>> Good morning. Thanks.
>> What are those signs of consolidation
that you've got your eye on?
>> Yes, absolutely. So, I think what
markets were very worried about when you
got liberation day was you had an
unnatural correlation with the dollar
and risk. I think the other part of the
picture was there was this worry that
tariffs would be very negative for the
US relative to the rest of the world
because the US was picking a fight with
everyone. Everyone would fight back.
What we've seen instead is that
countries have not retaliated. So that's
less of a US growth impact. And if you
think about what economies will be most
under pressure from tariffs, it'll be
your small open export oriented
economies. And Europe is not small, but
it's very open. And so I think now we're
having more of a normal correlation
where tariffs are seen as more positive
for the dollar than maybe previously.
>> And you see good reason for that to
continue.
>> Yeah, I think so. I think part of it
will be a re-evaluation of what we're
seeing from a growth perspective in the
US. So I think we had a lot of
front-loaded weakness in the dollar in
the first half that looks like it's hard
to continue. Um I will also say there
seems to be this asymmetric reaction
function that we had in the first half
where you know dollar bad news was very
bad for the dollar whereas good news was
not as good and so stuff like fiscal
which could be taken as a negative in
terms of deficit expansion section 8.99
or a positive in terms of it's a small
growth impulse was very much shaken on
the negative side but we haven't had
some of those negatives feed through it.
Right? The deficit expansion isn't as
bad as we thought it would be. Section
8.99 has been removed, but because we
had that weakness, you've had some kind
of premium priced in. So, there's room
for that to come off as problematic
policies have come off. We dealt with
trade. Now, let's deal with Fed
independence, right? I mean, sort of a
whack-a-ole. Which uh issue are we
actually talking about when we talk
about the dollar versus the euro is the
level that we're looking at 116 on the
Euro dollar cross, including the
potential for a Fed that is
disproportionately dovish in response to
some of the job owning from the
president? Yeah, I think there's
definitely some kind of a premium priced
in terms of a removal of Powell's Fed
share. That's certainly not. I think we
saw that clearly in the market reaction
function last week where you saw a
strong dollar sell-off when there was a
high risk of that. Um, what I would say
is, you know, it's clearly unambiguously
dollar negative, right? It means that
the risk is you have inflation
deankering. Buying the dollar, buying US
assets is a a commitment to buy
something that will likely only devalue
by 2% per year, which is what the Fed
mandate means that you're getting from
that. So, it is clearly negative. I
think the issue is it's hard to actually
remove Powell legally, as well as there
are 12 Fed governors. So the market's
very aware that if Powell's removed
even, which seems low likelihood, then
you have 12 other or 11 other governors
who might not turn that way and likely
won't if the data doesn't support it.
>> Are we close to the threshold of people
getting sick of being bearish in the
dollar? This idea of the consensus
trade, the one consensus trade in the
first half of 2025 maybe coming under
some pressure.
>> I think absolutely and we've seen that
in positioning data. So we look at both
CFTC options and then sentiment and that
had this massive roller coaster this
year where it was very bullish then very
bearish and it's kind of neutralized
now. I think part of the story too is
that there's not a good alternative.
It's not like Europe has this great
growth story going behind it. If you
think about the optimism that was priced
in on fiscal that's largely gone away
especially when you consider that for
our 2026 growth forecast the negatives
you get from tariffs for growth are much
more negative than the positives you get
from fiscal.
>> So what is it capped as? What's the
level it's capped at when it comes to
Euro dollar?
>> Yeah, in Euro dollar, I think, you know,
120 is the max max you can get.
Obviously, we're quite a ways from
there, but in our outlook, we looked at
kind of how you get there. And what I
will say is we haven't seen flows
broadly move away from the US. There's
not been this mass exodus from US
equities. There's not been a mass exodus
from US income. What you have seen is
hedge ratios have adjusted and we've
undone quite a lot of that hedge ratio
downward trend that you got when the Fed
was hiking. And you could certainly have
that hedge ratio adjust higher to the
detriment of the dollar versus the euro
and towards 120. The issue is hedge
costs are very correlated with hedge
ratios. So if that cost stays high, if
the Fed stays where they are, you need
continued catalyst and reasons to pay
that cost. Building on Lisa's point
though about the question of an
independent Fed and the president
continuously bringing up whether or not
he's going to fire J. Powell or not,
what is the long-term damage that could
do to the dollar? Yeah, I think the
worry is around the institution whether
or not you get erosion there. And we've
definitely seen this not just with
threats to the Fed's independence. I
think this was also part of the
Liberation Day dollar selloff. I think
the hope is that overall when you're
thinking about policies from the US
administration, they're thinking about
growth positive policies. And so that
would be more positive for the dollar.
But certainly it brings up questions
that we haven't been thinking about
previously. That means that maybe at the
margin you get this dd dollararization
which I think the case is still very out
in the long term as to whether or not
investors will broadly turn away at the
margin from the US
>> ACP on hold this week.
>> Yes. I mean I think that's pretty well
expected. I think the question from here
is whether you get further easing and
I'd highlight that you're going to see
inflation divergence between the US and
Europe certainly. So the US has a price
level adjustment at a minimum from
tariffs. You also have tighter
immigration and you have the dollar
decline in the first half will be an
inflationary boost too. On the other
side, you have weaker currencies in the
Euro zone. Oil prices are much lower.
You've got this over supply from China
that needs some more to find or some
home to find. And you also have a euro
that's much stronger, which is
disinflationary on top of weighing on
export. So, you could see more cuts
certainly
>> green light for them to cut rates if
they want to, but no one believes they
will this week at least.
>> Everyone expects them to remain on hold
for quite a while. I'm waiting for
someone to ask Christine Lagard, is this
because you want the euro to become the
reserve currency of the world and is
this the way that you plan on supporting
it going forward?
>> Global currency. Is that what she's
called it? I think
>> yes. She said this is her opportunity.
Step up guys.
>> So the ECB will be a snooze on Thursday.
So take Thursday off as well. Skylar,
thank you. Good to see you. Scarlet
Montgomery Con. She's trying to wrap up
the week. See that story about 24/7
trading.
Absolutely not. Bob Michael of JP Morgan
Asset Management joins us shortly
alongside Charles Mars of Signum Global
Advisers, Eric Mgalof of KKR and a whole
lot more.
[Music]
>> It is a kind of a murky data picture,
>> but we need to be careful of some of
these cracks in inflation data.
>> There are certainly signs that the labor
market is more fragile than it looks.
What we're really waiting for is this
pass through of inflationary impact.
>> I really don't know that we're at the
cusp of something dramatic happening to
this economy.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning to you all.
The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now and this
rally resumes. Equity futures on the S&P
500 up by a quarter of 1% building up to
the gains on the NASDAQ 100 up another
third of 1% through the week. A sprinkle
of economic data and two earnings
reports to keep your eye on this coming
Wednesday. Tesla and Google kicking off
earnings for the Max 7.
>> And this really will be the key week,
the second fastest week or the second
most active week for earnings reports on
the S&P 500. We get a sense of how well
the big tech giants are actually doing.
Do we get a sense that that they're
going to exceed expectations as much as
they have in recent quarters? And is
that enough? We have seen this time and
time again as the bar gets higher and
higher and higher. Their projections
that blow it out of the water still are
not good enough. We saw that with some
of the banks. Do we see a similar type
of reaction from the tech giants?
>> Tech AI in its own world. American
Airlines later this week. You spoke to
United Airlines just last week. They're
talking about a second half rebound. A
second half rebound. Lori Cavsino of RBC
was discussing this. investors now
focused on 26 looking past all of this
headline risk through the summer.
>> Yeah, although airlines seem to be in a
world of their own. And she actually
talked about that in some of her notes,
how their optimism about the rebound in
travelers and consumer spending seems a
bit divorced from what we hear from
other consumer-facing outlets that show
a more tempered or sideways type of
market. Does American show the same
trend given that they still also have a
big business component to their travel
in front of the cabin? We also hear from
Southwest. Do we see a deterioration in
other more uh vacationoriented plane uh
services and that I think will give you
a fuller picture of the whole uh air
airline uh sphere.
>> I mentioned those trade deadlines August
1st. August 1st, the self-imposed
deadline which can move. Of course, the
EU is taking that trade deadline very
very seriously, preparing for the worst
and preparing potentially this week
retaliations.
>> Preparing preparing to retaliations also
Jonathan preparing to potentially just
accept an unbalanced trade agreement
because any trade agreement at this
moment for Europe might be better than
not having one on its own. When it comes
to what they could retaliate on, there's
two separate lists. One's going after
things like soybeans, agricultural in
the United States. The second one more
important to the US industrial complex,
things like Boeing. And then there's a
third they can go into is this anti-coar
option. You have individuals in France
pushing for that, but others are saying,
"Wait, steady. Hold the course. Let's
get to the finish line." When it comes
to August 1st,
>> I thought we had a deal. The EU would
accept 10% tariffs, couple of exemptions
on some key industries, and we move on.
>> Scott Bessant when he was on with us
said something that I thought was really
instructive. He said, "Either way,
President Trump wins. Either we get more
revenue from tariffs or potentially we
extract a better deal. What is the end
point of that type of psychology? When
is enough enough when you have a certain
type of concession?" That's what I'm
curious about.
>> You enjoying the snooze Monday morning?
>> Sort of. I mean, I feel like
>> 21 nice and quiet.
>> The problem is, you know how like
computer when you click on it too much
just starts buffering? I feel like I'm
still buffering from the rest of the
year. So that's kind of where I'm at
this morning.
>> That's your morning. Mine, too. You're
not alone. Equity futures on the S&P
positive by a quarter of 1%. Coming up
this hour, Bob Michael of JP Morgan
Asset Management expecting growth to
slow. Charles Mars of Signnum Global
Advisers on the feud between Trump and
Pal. Plus, frankly of HSBC on his
outlook for the chip sector. We begin
this hour with stocks rising. Bob
Michael of JP Morgan Asset Management
writing the following. The full impact
of tariffs has yet to hit. the
inevitable reset higher in prices will
see some demand destruction from
businesses and from households. Bob
joins us now for more. Bob, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Why haven't we seen much of it so far?
>> Well, I think that's been the amazing
resilience of corporate America. Somehow
they've been able to absorb the first
round of tariffs in their margins. It's
clear that the tariffs are being charged
because revenues to the tre to the
treasury are going up. When you look at
corporate earnings, they look okay. And
when you look at inflation indices,
those have been relatively mar moderate.
So where have the tariffs been hitting?
It looks like for the second quarter,
corporate America absorbed a lot of
them. Can they do it in the third
quarter? It feels like the
administration is solving for a higher
tariff level, dare I say, to go from 2.8
8 trillion to something closer to what
the one big beautiful bill act is 3.4
trillion. So there's that perfect offset
probably. I think corporate America has
a lot more difficult decisions to make
this quarter.
>> Is that positive for bonds or negative
for bonds?
>> Well, bonds have also been phenomenally
resilient. Nothing has gone right for
the bond market. Tariffs are higher
prices. The one big beautiful bill act
means that there's higher growth which
will support higher inflation. Then you
start looking at the rebalancing talk
away from America. Sell America. That
noise still continues. And then you have
all the global issuance. Yet here we are
4 and 38% on the 10-year Treasury flat
to the Fed funds rate. It's not at 5%
probably where it belongs. I think the
bond market absorbs it all. I think like
the Fed, it looks through the higher
price levels and thinks about the impact
to the broader economy and sees the
economy slowing down, not to recession,
but we've got somewhere between a half
to 1% GDP over the second half of this
year.
>> You've been a big bond bull. You just
said that you see 10-year yields
somewhere closer to 5%. on a real level
or based on all of these trends. Why do
you think it's not? You talked about the
idea that maybe people continue to buy
bonds for yield, but does it make you
nervous that maybe they're not counting
for certain types of strength in the uh
corporate resilience.
>> Okay. I don't see 10-year yields at 5%.
I think they belong at 5%. And that's
the great puzzle that they're not there.
Once the Fed stopped cutting rates, a
natural resting spot for the 10-year
should have been some spread to the Fed
funds rate. And yet, we've hung around
440 for eternity. That's telling us that
there's constant demand for government
bonds. There's constant demand for the
bond market out there. Every time I meet
with investors, they're trying to figure
out where to get into the bond market,
how to get into the bond market. They've
got too much cash and they're trying to
get in. So, I don't think I'm going to
get the 5%. I would have liked it to
have had an opportunity to buy. I think
you may get some indigestion.
August, September, usually months for
consolidation across markets. Um, if we
get wider credit spreads, maybe that's
an opportunity to add some credit, but I
don't think you're going to get the big
sell-off in the bond market. Well, you
said that you do expect there to be some
ramification from tariffs. One of the
ramifications that people have h have
believed there to be is the potential
for inflation. If the Fed cuts uh
benchmark rates by 25 basis points next
week, Chris Waller would like that to
happen. How much do you see the long end
selling off?
>> So, I wouldn't advocate a 25 basis point
rate cut next week. I'm not, of course,
auditioning for the head of the FOMC.
So, I'm not pushing for rate cuts. I
think the Fed is right to just stay on
hold, see where tariffs actually settle,
then look at the impact to inflation,
and then look at the labor market. And I
think that's correctly what they're
rightly focused on. This time, they're
going to be right. Inflation will be
transitory. What is the greater impact
to the labor market? If you start to
shoot above four and a half percent,
then I think they will step in and cut
rates to try to stabilize the economy
and then of course that puts a lot of
chips on betting that inflation will
come down early next year.
>> Bob, what if we never get to the end
tariff story? We could be constantly
negotiating the rest of this year.
>> Well, that's almost the ideal situation
for the markets, right? You're you're
dealing with a 10% base rate. you're
dealing with some higher tariffs across
different parts of of uh production.
You've got a lot of carveouts. And when
you step back and look at the economy,
the market has absorbed that. It's okay.
Corporate America can adjust to that.
Businesses and households can adjust to
that. And the markets are embracing that
and saying, "Okay, that's moderate
growth, moderate inflation, not so bad."
Is it fair to call the case to cut
interest rates just an audition? Is
there nothing credible in the argument
for you at all?
>> The the only thing credible for me, the
only weakness that I see and and the
labor market I think you can put to the
side a little bit for now because
there's a lot of anecdotal evidence.
>> Well, that's the epicenter of the
argument coming from Governor Waller.
It's the weakness in the labor market
that's coming together. Okay, that can
be his argument, but you're you're in
the lows 4% in unemployment. You haven't
seen the real impact. For me, it's the
housing market. That's the one thing
that tells me that rates are moderately
restrictive. You've got a shortage in
housing. You've got a lot of demand out
there, but housing affordability is at
one of the poorest levels in history.
There are three components of that. Home
prices aren't going to come down. Real
wages are going up, but it will take a
couple years to catch up to where home
prices are. The third is mortgage rates.
Mortgage rates just below 7% make the
housing market unaffordable. If you
bring mortgage rates down, I don't know,
doesn't have to come down 2%. A half,
3/4 of a percent, I think you see a
pickup in new and existing home sales.
To me, that's the key sign that the
housing mark that that uh the current
rate policy is restrictive.
>> Key question here is just whether or not
there is inflationary pressure in the
system enough that if the Fed were to
cut rates currently, that would lead to
a reaceleration. It would lead to
something that maybe wasn't transitory.
That's the reason why I asked if the Fed
were to cut by 25 basis points or 50
basis points this year or even more,
would that cause the belief of a
reaceleration in of inflation to get
baked into the market making mortgages
less affordable? Right. I mean, that's
the key question. So, what's that
tipping point at which rate cuts are
counterproductive to what we're seeing
at the long end of the yield curve?
>> Well, if you start lobbing in 50 basis
points now because you're saying, "Hey,
we all agree on the FOMC that around 3%
is a neutral rate. We're at 4 and 38%.
Let's go for it. Let's start throwing in
the 25s and 50s and get down there." And
yeah, you start to bring rates down like
that. I think that will give corporate
America a sense of confidence to push
through a lot of the tariff pricing to
the consumer. Right now they're weighing
how much do they absorb, how much does
the consumer absorb, how much do they
make the exporters absorb. They'll push
more of that through. Then consumers may
choose to finance that. They may take
out a bigger mortgage. They may go ahead
and take out a bigger car loan. We'll
have to see. But the real problem is if
that becomes embedded in wages. We don't
see that yet, right? We're I talked
about low fours are are, you know,
pretty much full employment. John made
the point that hey, it's been rising.
That's the center of the storm out there
that people are talking about. The Fed
should be cutting rates. So if that's
true and unemployment has been going up
and people are concerned about the
stability of the labor market, you're
not going to see a a price wage spiral.
You're not going to see wages sheet up
like that.
>> Bob Michael at JP Morgan Asset
Management. Bob, thank you.
>> Pleasure to be
>> a nice quiet summer Monday. Next
Wednesday, if this week's going to be a
snooze, and I think it might be based on
this morning so far, next Wednesday
won't be a week on Wednesday, a Federal
Reserve decision, and that one could be
interesting. expect a sense. I think
that's what we heard from uh Fed
Governor Chris Waller that he is ready
to descent on the consensus position
that they're going to hold steady and
prepare for a rate cut in September.
He'd like to cut as soon as next week
and the why is going to be important.
How do they justify how this is not
political and this isn't just an
audition to be the next Fed chair?
>> Equity futures on the S&P positive here
by 210 of 1% with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahihara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. President Trump is pushing back
on a report that Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessant warned him against ousting
Fed chair Jay Powell because it would be
bad for markets. But in a post on Truth
Social, Trump called the Wall Street
Journal quote, "Typically untruthful,"
and went on to say he knows better than
anyone what's good for markets.
Meanwhile, a Delta Airlines jet was
forced to abort landing to avoid a
midair collision with a B-52 bomber. The
incident happened last week in North
Dakota near an Air Force base. Citing
the pilot, ABC News reported the plane
had to make an aggressive go-around
maneuver as the other aircraft became
visible. ABC News says afterward the
pilot apologized to passengers.
And sticking with the airlines, Alaska
Air has resumed operations after an IT
outage temporarily grounded its fleet on
Sunday. The grounding lasted about 3
hours. It's the second time in just over
a year Alaska Air has had to ground its
fleet because of IT problems. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhira, thank you. More from Yahara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, the feud between Trump and Pal.
>> The president is an amazingly
transparent person. When he thinks
something, he says it. So he says,
"Look, this guy's doing the worst job.
We have interest rates the same as
Gabone." Whether he decides to let
Jerome Pal stay in the job or not, I'll
leave that to Donald Trump.
>> Rate differentials are important. I'm
not sure about that rate differential,
but rate differentials are important.
Charles Mars of Signnum Global Advisers
joins us next live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Live from New York City, welcome to the
program. Just short of alltime highs
going into the weekend. Looking for
another record high as we begin a new
trading week. Equity futures positive by
two ten of 1% on the NASDAQ 100, up by a
quarter. under surveillance this
morning. The feud between Trump and Pal.
>> The president is an amazingly
transparent person. When he thinks
something, he says it. So he says,
"Look, this guy's doing the worst job.
We have interest rates the same as
Gabone." Whether he decides to let
Jerome Pal stay in the job or not, I'll
leave that to Donald Trump. I think the
guy's doing the worst job. He's costing
us, you and me, and the American people.
It's just wrong. I don't know why he's
torturing America this way. Our rate
should be lower.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
President Trump disputing a Wall Street
Journal report. The Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson advised him against firing
Fed chair J. Pal due to the market
reaction. Trump posting on Truth Social.
If it weren't for me, the market
wouldn't be at record highs right now.
It probably would have crashed. People
don't explain to me, I explain to them.
Bloomberg's a gardener joins us now for
more. Aa welcome back to the show. We
caught up with the Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson just last week and he
acknowledged the formal process to
replace Chairman Pal had started. Can
you help us all understand where we are
in that process and how soon we'll find
out who will be the next Fed chair?
>> Well, the conversation about whether
President Trump would fire Fed Chair
Jerome Fowler is far from over. And that
is in part because the administration is
looking into the Fed's renovation
building projects. They say they have a
$700 million cost overrun for a project
that was initially valued to cost less
than $2 billion. It's now surpassed the
$2.5 billion mark. But Fed Chair Jerome
Powell responded to questions from
budget director Russell vote last week
and said essentially that they've
ordered the independent in inspector
general to take a look at the cost
overruns. They are also blaming
inflation potentially on the rising
cost, but essentially said there's
nothing to see here. There's nothing
nefarious happening, but President Trump
has floated the idea of potentially flaw
fraud being involved here, which would
be a criminal offense. No evidence yet
of that, but the administration is
planning a visit to the Fed's properties
to look at these renovations. It's
really unclear what will come of that,
but there's already a race to replace
Jerome Pal, whether it's this year or at
the end of his term in in May 2026.
>> AA Gardner with the latest down in DC.
AA, thank you. Kelly mentioned that
visit to visit the Federal Reserve HQ.
Senate Banking Chair Tim Scott also in
talks to attend as well. According to
reporting from Semaphore earlier this
morning.
>> Yeah. To me it's sort of the political
hot potato. Who can you blame? You know
I got sucked down a rabbit hole looking
at Gabone and the national parks in
>> Is that how you spent the commercial
4.5% interest rate?
>> 100%. They've got four and a half%
interest rate. And I have to say that
they've got gorillas and dolphins. And I
mean, I'm just thinking like, you know,
I just sense me on this rabbit hole of
where in the world are they thinking of
today?
>> We've got 60 seconds here to talk about
this. The administration has a rather
unique way of thinking about interest
rates in ways that maybe central bankers
don't.
>> They think of it like credit risk. The
Microsoft or Apples, if you have an
incredible creditworthiness, you should
pay lower rates. While the rest of the
world looks at it as a measure, some
sort of approximation of growth and
inflation. If that's the case, the
interest rate should be higher. In the
developing world, it's credit. In the
developed world, it's sovereign. Do you
really want to flip that on its head?
>> It's an interesting point of tension
that isn't going anywhere anytime soon.
Charles Mars of Signum Global Advisors
has this to say. Our base case has been
and remains that US President Donald
Trump will not dismiss Fed Chair Jerome
Pal at the very least until after the
September FOMC meeting. Charles joins us
now for more. So Charles, you given us
the best case, two months. What happens
after that if they haven't reduced
interest rates?
>> Yeah, if the Fed doesn't cut at the
September meeting, I think the president
moves forward with a shadow chair
nominee announcement and uh continues to
build the case to dismiss Pal for cause
uh hoping that Powell will resign. Uh I
don't think Pal will resign, but I think
that case will continue to be built.
what what what the president really
wants is is for the Fed chair to resign
and uh you know Pal's not going to do
that most likely and and and the other
part of this process is the president
really trying to socialize with the
markets this idea of replacing the Fed
chair. Um the the only guardrail working
in the United States today in terms of a
check on executive power is the bond
market and I think that's what they're
most worried about. So the s the
September FOMC meeting is critical and
uh we'll see what the Fed does.
Otherwise we have a shadow Fed chair.
Well, wouldn't it be even harder though
for the collective body of the FOMC to
cut if he was to get rid of the Fed
chair or say he was going to fire him
after the September meeting?
>> Absolutely. I think you know everyone in
the markets understands that it's a 12
member FOMC vote. It's not just the Fed
chair. Uh but the president sees PAL as
the obstacle. Uh and he really wants a
Fed chair in whether it's shadow or if
Pal resigns. Even if Pal resigns, by the
way, uh the FOMC picks the Fed chair. So
I I think what the president's really
doing is using PAL as the punching bag
for higher rates. Uh he's also worried I
think that even though the
administration doesn't believe the
tariffs will be inflationary that if
inflation does pick up over the next
several months you can blame the Fed,
blame Powell. But ultimately I think
this shadow Fed chair idea uh which even
three or four months ago sounded really
far out there or deeply concerning for
the markets is now being socialized and
probably happens after September. Well,
the Treasury Secretary talked about the
fact that there could be confusion with
a shadow Fed chair if Jay Powell doesn't
step down after his chairmanship is
over, but he still has a governor seat
until 2028. Do you have any indication
that he would stay the course until
2028?
>> Absolutely. I think Chair Pal will stay
on the board after his chair term ends
and he stays on the board until the end
of his term in 2028.
>> But wouldn't that look very political,
Charles? Charles, that would look
incredibly political. Most chairs step
down.
>> Absolutely. But I think it would be a
really strong statement by chair pal,
encouraged by some of the other members
of the FOMC perhaps as a statement of
very strong independence and that's why
I think he stays on.
>> Charles, there's a question of what
happens if let's say Chair Powell is
fired and for cause let's get gets mired
in all sorts of legal disputes. There's
this issue of does Congress confirm
whoever President Trump nominates to
replace him? How much unity is there
right now among Republican Congress
members?
>> Well, I think you know uh whoever is
nominated has to be confirmed in the
Senate. Uh the Senate, including the
Republican caucus and the Republican
leadership do take Fed independence very
seriously. So, whoever is nominated will
be uh a very uh respectable and
acceptable and very positive person for
the markets. it'll be one of the folks
that are auditioning very publicly for
it. Um, you know, but in the end, um, I
don't think that's going to be the
issue. That person will get confirmed.
The issue is, uh, you know, will they
try to sway the FOMC to be more dovish?
>> Charles Mars of Sigma Global Advisers.
Charles, thank you, sir. Looking forward
to the Game of Thrones over the next 12
months or so. None of us have got a
direct line into Chairman Pal and what
he will or will not do with that seat.
But ultimately, if it is a credible
candidate, I think most people would
assume on Wall Street, he'll step aside
>> because ultimately that is the
tradition. That's what they would do.
And to Amy's point, I think it's a valid
point. It would be viewed as sort of
thumbming his nose at President Trump to
not let him have that extra seat, which
then starts to become this question of
is he trying to hold rates high in order
to have a political move. As far as I
can understand between conversations
with people in the administration, also
reading the tea leaves, the issue is he
has yet to tell them. He has yet to tell
the president. He has yet to tell Scott
Bessant whether or not he is going to
step aside. And they need to know
because why? They want that seat because
they know that this is a a a
collaborative body and that they want
that seat to make sure they could put
individuals with their world view into
the FOMC.
>> They want to plant that line in the sand
then for Charles at least September
17th. They could be cutting interest
rates by then. Based on communication
that we've had from this chairman, from
this whole FOMC, it looks like they'll
be cutting interest rates by then.
>> It feels a little bit I just have to say
the whole like question of whether he
stays on, it feels like if you have a
kid who's six and they want some toy and
they don't really want it and you're
like, "No, you can't have it." Then they
really want it and they're going to hold
on to it forever and they're going to
demand it. It's got to have leverage.
>> Well, for what the
>> It's got million dollar spees to give
after.
>> Yeah, you're not you're not exactly
whipping out the uh the violin. I
wouldn't. But hey. All right. Up next,
Eric Mugoff of KKR saying 401ks
investing in private equity would be a
game changer. That's next.
Coming off the back of a week of gains
on the S&P 500, just short of record
highs going into the weekend. This
morning, equity futures shaping up as
follows. Futures positive by 210 of 1%
on the S&P. on the NASDAQ up by a
quarter of 1% as we wait for earning
season to kick off for the Max 7. Look
out for Wednesday when you'll hear from
Alphabet and from Tesla. We're two hours
until the cash open. Let's get you some
morning movers. Let's cross over to
Danny Burgerer for more. Hey Danny. Hey
John. We've already got a handful of
earnings to work through just this
morning. Stellantis off the lows of this
morning. Originally when it started to
trade in Europe and the ADRs, that's
what you're looking at in the
pre-market. It was down sharply now down
just 210 of 1%. The thinking is perhaps
this quarter was a kitchen kitchen sink
moment. They recorded a $2.7 billion
loss. The expectation was a profit. It's
a new CEO who has to deal with
everything from tariffs to shutting down
some expensive EV projects. Meanwhile,
at the top of this hour, we heard from
Verizon. They narrowed their guidance
for EPS growth for this year.
Originally, they saw 0 to 3%. Now, they
see 1 to 3%. That's off the back of
thanks to what they say are tax reforms,
better performing businesses, and they
were also able to increase their costs
of their wireless business. So, those
shares up just under 5%. We also heard
from Domino's Pizza. They reported at
the top of the last hour those shares
are up 6%. They beat on same store
comparable sales for the second quarter.
They also opened up more stores both in
the US and internationally. the CEO
saying that they are a value offering
and right now as there are macro
uncertainties that's what customers
want. Uh they also apparently launched a
stuffed crust pizza which I didn't
realize they didn't have one. So uh
maybe that helping things in the second
quarter too. Sean
>> corporate America getting it done in
many ways. Danny, thank you. Braosmo's
face then on the prospect of a stuffed
crust pizza from Domino's.
>> That was special.
>> Stop revealing what I do when you're not
looking at me. That was special on a
radar this morning. I'm going to move
on. Don't worry.
>> Does that sound good to you?
>> It's not something I would eat.
>> Okay. Well, let's see your face.
>> No, I'm not pulling faces, though.
President Trump denying a Wall Street
Journal report. The Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson talked him out of firing
Fed Chair Jay Pal. Writing this on Truth
Social. People don't explain to me, I
explain to them.
>> Basically saying the Treasury Secretary
didn't have to come in and explain to me
the impact of what firing Fed Chair J
Pal would do. almost admitting that he
knows the implications could be negative
when it comes to the economy and the
market. Still, to this point, the
president is going to continuously go
after the Fed. First, it was about J.
Powell and cutting of interest rates.
Now, it's about the renovation projects
we've been talking about all morning.
They're making a field trip over to the
building. Some Republicans and probably
Ross VA to see exactly what those
renovations look like that actually are
over budget, but the Fed says are in
line basically with what's needed from
these building, this building from the
1930s. unpopular view. I'm sick of this
story. I'm really sick of this story. I
think that's gonna be I mean I know but
it just makes us an unpopular view.
>> Well, I just feel like overwhelmingly
popular just move on and ultimately we
know that he's trying to find some
excuse because he wants interest rates
to be lower. President Trump is a is a
real estate developer. What a shocker.
There is an unconventional view of why
he should lower rates. You can blame
inflation then. You can blame
potentially any kind of slowdown. You
can blame everything on this guy. Okay,
this is what we're going to be talking
about. Also an argument out there over
the last week that it's just one big
distraction from other news dominating
Washington at the moment.
>> Yes, exactly. Well, this is something
that people have talked about the
Epstein files and what that actually
does.
>> Also, I cannot get over the polling over
the weekend. 70% of Americans say they
want this ad administration to focus on
affordability. Well, when you're talking
about inflation, there's one prime
suspect that you can blame. If you're
not going to blame this White House, you
can blame the Fed chair. And that's what
they're doing.
>> That's the latest state side. I just
want to fold in some news out of China.
China reportedly stopped an American
citizen who works for the US Commerce
Department from leaving the country for
several months. The Washington Post
reporting the Chinese American
individual had traveled to meet
relatives in the country.
>> And this is something that we saw with
the Wells Fargo employee recently as
well. And it raises a question about
what type of travel bans end up being
used as some sort of negotiating chip
ahead of a Trump Xi meetup. The idea
that in the United States, if everything
is on the table, well, in China,
everything could be on the table, too,
including potentially preventing exits
from travelers from the United States
raises questions about international
companies and how they do business in
the region.
>> Programming note, if you're about to fly
this morning before we move on to our
next story, might be flying to China.
I've got no idea. Just cover your ears
for a second. A Delta Airlines jet
forced to abort landing to avoid a
mid-air collision with a B-52 bomber in
North Dakota on Friday. This is
shocking. AC news reporting the pilot
called the go-around maneuver aggressive
and then apologized to passengers after
landing.
>> Yeah, it sounds like it was just a nose
dive and then a spike upward to try to
avoid this military plane May not in
North Dakota which is where this plane
was uh was flying to kind of separated
from anything. that whole region is
pretty much separated from anything.
Home to a huge uh US Army and Navy base
and it raises a question about how much
uh there is cross communication. Again,
the idea of traffic control getting it
up to speed and the investment that's
necessary. That's something that we're
going to be talking about incredibly
>> scary and shocking. And there's a video
posted on TikTok and the pilot can be
heard saying basically going through
what happened. He said the aircraft was
quote kind of sort of coming at us.
Nobody told us about it. This is scary
stuff. Can you imagine being on that
plane and this pilot trying to navigate
this and once again center stage
headline news for Americans is whether
or not it's safe to travel.
>> All I can say congratulations to the
pilots. They did a great job.
>> Big time. I think that's pretty
impressive
>> cuz hard pass from all of us. That's for
sure. Let's turn back to markets.
President Trump finalizing an executive
order that would pave the way for 401k
retirement plans to invest in private
equity.
We've heard a lot of uh input from both
the investors who want access to uh
private uh the private markets and to
those sorts of products and obviously
from the uh people who are producing uh
the products who uh you know are about
to meet that demand. So but we have to
do it carefully uh I think because of
course the private markets are a lot
different than the public markets. Eric
Mgalof of KKR calling the move a
potential gamecher. I'm pleased to say
that Eric joins us now for more. Eric,
good morning.
>> Good morning. Thanks.
>> Why would this be such a big move from
your standing?
>> Look, obviously we'll need to see what
happens and we'll need to see whether we
see the executive order, whether we see
legislative and regulatory changes
happen. Um but if we do, it could make a
meaningful difference to the US
retirement market. Look, we have to
acknowledge the fact that the US has a
real problem in retirement. Um there are
um millions of Americans that are
relying exclusively on 401k plans and
the good news is they're living longer
but the challenge is they have a limited
tool kit to enable them to retire with
enough income. Conversely, if you look
at other millions of Americans that are
covered by defined benefit plans,
they've been benefiting from private
markets for decades. We at KKR, we
manage private assets that benefit over
21 million retirees across um public uh
pension plans. And so our view is why
wouldn't you want all Americans to have
the ability to have that full toolkit so
they can retire with dignity?
>> If I were being cynical, which of course
I'm not, I would speculate that maybe
some of the premium has already come up
from private equity. The gains have been
got and that's been from some of the big
institutions. you started to see private
equity returns lag behind some public
markets. How do you make the argument
that this is actually going to be
beneficial to potential retirees rather
than just getting in after it's already
good uh and and sort of picking up the
pieces afterwards?
>> Sure. So, we um see the private markets
growing substantially. And if you think
about it, um the public markets publicly
listed companies have been shrinking. A
decade ago there were 7,000 publicly
listed companies. Today that number is
less than 4,500. We see really
significant opportunities to put capital
to work to generate strong riskadjusted
returns. And in fact, we see tens of
thousands of financial adviserss
allocating to the private markets to
enhance returns, diversify risk, and
gain exposure to parts of the market
that they otherwise wouldn't have access
to in the public markets. We've heard a
lot about the potential looking outside
of the United States, especially as some
of the policy headlines that we're
talking about just moments ago continue
to percolate. How much is that true in
private markets as well?
>> Sure. So, as we look across our client
base, across institutional investors,
insurance companies, family offices, and
wealth investors, we are seeing um uh
investors diversify across the the
globe. Um, as it relates to our
institutional clients, we are seeing
them allocate more to infrastructure
both here in the US as well as abroad.
Um, uh, as it relates to insurance
companies, as example, we're seeing them
massively increase allocations to
private markets, in particular, private
credit, both here and in Europe. And so
we do see investors slowly start to
allocate across um, not just the United
States, but outside as well.
>> What's the most popular when it comes to
other areas outside the US?
>> Sure. It it really depends upon the
underlying investor and what they're
trying to accomplish. So for example
within the institutional space we are
seeing more and more pension plans,
sovereign wealth funds um allocate more
to infrastructure and there it's in the
developed markets in particular US,
Europe, a little bit of Asia um as it
relates to insurance companies there
we're seeing the focus in assetbased
finance as well as private corporate
credit and there it's primarily in the
US and Europe. You keep talking about
infrastructure and this speaks to the
sort of uh industrial revolution 2.0
that a lot of people keep talking about.
What type of infrastructure is this just
tied to tech? Is it bridges and roads?
Is it the air traffic control stations
that we keep talking about?
>> Sure. Look, the two areas we see the
greatest demand from our investors and
are in digital infrastructure and energy
transition. Both of these areas are
benefiting from secular changes which
are requiring trillions and trillions of
dollars of capital whether in digital as
it relates to AI or in the energy
transition as it as we move from brown
to green. We're seeing substantial um
need for capital and private investors
are filling the void.
>> Can you just describe the kind of
opportunities in that push that you're
offering people that I can't get in
public markets right now?
>> Sure. If you were to look at um broadly
speaking in the private markets, there
are certain areas of the market that you
otherwise are not getting exposure to.
So just take for example in the public
markets, most investors that are gaining
exposure to public markets, they are
significantly overweight a small number
of of um companies. Whereas in the
private markets, you have a much broader
array of um both asset classes and in
particular sectors of the market that
you can capture returns. Well,
>> let's take one theme, which is what I'm
asking about. say AI and the big push to
develop energy and everything around it.
Can I just get exposure to that in
public markets right now when several
massive companies pick out some utility
firms doing the same things? What is so
special about what you're doing? Look,
um what we are finding is more and more
companies are choosing to stay private
for longer or forever. And so the
challenge is you might want to gain
exposure to a part of the market that
otherwise there aren't public companies
available to invest in.
>> Why is that happening?
>> Look, there are many reasons why. I
think first is many CEOs and company
management teams. They recognize the
challenge about being public. There is a
lot of pressure on quarterly earnings.
There is a lot of pressure on the
immediate. When we work with companies
and when we purchase companies, our
focus is trying to find good companies
and help them be great and give them the
opportunity to build out a robust
multi-year secular um multi-year
strategic plan that where they're not
encumbered by the idea of having to
worry about quarterly earnings every
single day. How hard is that when the
technology is changing so quickly and
multiples can change so quickly in terms
of what the competitive landscape is and
what the uh profit opportunity looks
like?
>> Sure. Look, at the end of the day, what
we're focused on is using a value
creation toolkit to help good companies
become great. And so our view is we
worry less about the volatility of
multiples. We worry less about the
day-to-day. And our focus is on whether
it's helping a company expand
internationally, whether it's helping a
company go into a new market. Um, our
focus is trying to help these companies
essentially take their business models
and expand and grow.
>> Private credit credit has kind of eaten
private equities lunch over the past
couple of years. A lot of people have
gravitated toward the idea of getting
your money back and then some. Do you
think the pendulum is starting to shift
back to the equity side of things? Look,
you know, when we and again, we work
with lots of different clients and what
I would say is the all of them are
continue to allocate across the private
market spectrum. We certainly have seen
in the last couple of years increasing
demand for private credit. This is a
part of the market that again
historically many investors haven't had
access to. What I would say is this. We
see our clients allocate to the private
markets on a strategic basis. So that
incorporates private credit,
infrastructure, and private equity. And
so, you know, we see value across each
of these markets.
>> Can I ask you why you don't think this
has happened? Just to go back to the the
start of the conversation, opening this
up to 401ks.
What stopped it from happening up until
this point?
>> Look, I can't speak to the regulatory
changes and market environment. But what
I can say is private markets offers
investors three really unique
opportunities. Number one, to enhance
returns. The second to diversify risk.
And the third ultimately to get exposure
to parts of the market that clients
otherwise wouldn't get exposure to. If
you think about it today, the
correlations between stocks and bond
public stocks and public bonds has
increased. And so today there's a real
need for investors to find diversifying
assets and the private markets are a
place to go.
>> Eric, appreciate your time. It's good to
see you.
>> Thank you so much.
>> This is going to be an ongoing
conversation for sure. Eric Muggalov
there of KKR. Yeah, you asked the
question and I think it's a really
important one about what's been the
obstacle and there have been speculation
about uh potential mismatches in
duration about liquidity. The issue is
that you've seen ETFs and other
instruments managed to slowly eat away
at that. You also have this feeling that
companies don't want to be regulated to
the extent that maybe you have to be to
be listed on the S&P 500. So, they're
staying private and that sort of opened
up this whole ecosystem. And I think
that that's what you're seeing really
come to the four with this recent
legislation. Yeah, Mark Robbins talked
about this issue so many times. Why do
you need the data liquidity if it's for
an investment that ultimately you're not
going to withdraw for say 40, 50 years?
It's about retirement. You've got an
ultra long time horizon.
>> Yeah. And how many times have you seen
companies being forced to make decisions
that aren't in their long-term interest
simply because they have to meet that
quarterly earnings or the investor uh
preference of the moment and I think
that that's one thing that people keep
speaking to as well.
>> Futures this morning just about positive
by 210 of 1%. This from Peter Cheer. Can
we just skip to next week? What's wrong
with this week? It's nice and quiet.
>> Peter, hey, good morning, Peter. I think
you're listening to us this morning.
>> There we go, Pete. Nice note this
morning. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yhierra. Hey
yra.
>> Hi, John. Apple will debut its first
foldable iPhone next year, entering a
product category dominated by its rival
Samsung. But Apple is aiming to address
some long-standing issues with foldable
gadgets, like making the inner display
crease less visible and improving the
hinge mechanism. The phone is expected
to cost at least $2,000.
Meanwhile, President Trump is
threatening to block the Washington
Commander bid to build a new stadium in
DC. The president says he won't make a
deal unless the team changes its name
back to the Redskins, a term considered
offensive to Native Americans. But Trump
claims there's a big clamoring from them
to restore the old name. And Scotty
Sheffler put on a dominating performance
to win the Open Championship, finishing
four shots ahead of fellow American
Harris English at Royal Port Rush in
Northern Ireland. This is Sheffller's
second major tournament win this year
and means he is now a US Open title away
from completing the coveted Grand Slam.
And he remains so humble. Dutch
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara. Thank you. Not even 30. Amazing.
Absolutely dominant. Dominant is the
word. Just absolutely dominant.
Clinical.
>> Yeah. Well, clinical is the right word
for it. And as uh as we heard from you,
Hyra, very humble. You want a little bit
more bravado, don't you? I think that
you do. I think you wish you came out
there and said, "Watch me crush this."
Instead of, you know, every day.
>> I think personalities like Bryce of the
Champ are great for the game.
>> Yeah.
>> Put it that way. This is an individual
that I don't think wants to transcend
the sport. Wants to turn up on the
weekend, dominate, then go back to his
family. Nothing wrong with that. Yeah,
>> it's just it's not what you saw from
Tiger Woods in the early 2000s, late
90s.
>> Well, some flashand
drama.
>> Don't ever need the scandal, but you
know.
>> You know, it's it's the trope world.
>> Some personality.
>> I don't want to be too brutal about
this. Fantastic girlfriend.
>> No, no, you need to you need to cast a
little differently.
>> Exactly. Up next, a make or break moment
for earnings.
>> I think technology companies driven by
artificial intelligence is going to be
where you get your earnings growth this
quarter. And that's what's going to make
or break this earning cycle.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Frankly of HSBC.
[Music]
This just in moments ago from the
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson speaking
to the media this morning. The latest in
his words to the press. We're more con
concerned with highquality deals than
getting the deals done by August 1st.
We're not going to rush for the sake of
deals. That deadline self-imposed just a
few weeks away. Equity futures on the
S&P 500 shaping up as follows. We're
positive 210 of 1% on the S&P. Up
likewise on the NASDAQ, up even more on
the Russell. The small caps up by 0.7%.
And as a Savannah this morning, a make
orb breakak moment for earnings. The
leader of earnings historically in the
US is technology companies. So that's
what we need to count on for this cycle.
I think technology companies driven by
artificial intelligence is going to be
where you get your earnings growth this
quarter. And that's what's going to make
or break this earning cycle. Markets are
trading at a premium and they need to be
able to deliver these earnings driven by
technology companies to support the
premium valuations of the market.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Investors looking for spending on AI as
Max 7 earnings begin this week. Frank
Lee joins us now who covers chips for
HSBC. Frank, good morning. It's good to
see you.
>> Great. Good to have you here.
>> Got to talk about the news of the week
so far. the news of the last week for
the chip sector just dialing up and
dialing down restrictions on what they
can and can't sell into China. How
difficult is it to cover the names you
cover when the policy changes from month
to month?
>> Yeah, I think it's clearly a challenge
is that uh you know the it's much more
unpredictable. Um I think the the focus
though is the long-term narrative is
unchanged. the spending um I think at
the beginning of the year there was a a
more of a concerning narrative whether
the spending on uh AI especially from
hyperscalers will start to slow going
into next year and you know monetization
is still an issue but as we come into
the middle of the year it seems pretty
clear that the spending will continue uh
the hyperscalers continue to to give the
right messaging uh and we don't see any
slowdown and also we're seeing more of a
focus on enterprise and sovereign AI
which we didn't really quite see so much
the beginning of the year
>> do you have a sense of why the
administration made this U-turn on the
H20 chips.
>> I I think you know it's um something
that uh you know I think China is
something that the the market of AI is
going to be significant there and
whether the US uh I don't think I think
they come conclusion that there's going
to be they're going to have to continue
to be part of the story. They can't
completely uh um you know avoid it. And
I think, you know, if you look at uh
what Nvidia was doing, they're already
planning to uh focus on another
potential chip that was going into
China, an RTX chip. Uh so I think now
they're just being, you know, reactive
to it.
>> Does China have anything comparable to
either of those?
>> I think it's going to be quite some
time, but I think we are seeing that
China has come up with a lot of very uh
unique different language models. Um,
and I think there's this view that uh,
you know, it's it's better to be part of
system and if we can somewhat control it
within our parameters. Uh, and I think
that's something that perhaps the
administration is is more open to now
than they were before.
>> Do you think the semiconductor companies
are overly complacent some of the
threats of retaliation coming from
Europe in particular, this idea that
there could be the uh, anti- coercion
um, initiative that they could put into
effect. Do you think that that actually
will come into the four when it comes to
market activity? I think that there's
going to be a lot of discussions but
ultimately I think everybody wants
access to these chips. Uh and right now
there's only a few number of companies
in the world that can develop it. Um and
I think that ultimately people will look
for ways to to compromise and and open
it up. So I don't think there will be as
much rhetoric. Uh I think the rhetoric
will continue but I don't think it will
be as much of a significant impact.
>> What are you looking to learn in this
earning season as we uh hear from some
of the majors? I I think basically the
reassurance that the spending will
continue um and that uh you know this
this we're still in the early stages of
this AI boom and I think that basically
uh we'll get re reaffirmed through these
earning season as we progress.
>> Why do we have to wait so long for
Nvidia earnings? Frank, can you help us
answer that question? Uh I mean it's
based on I think their their product
their calendar year but I think even
before that we're going to get
indications from all the other companies
and the hyperskillers that this
investment cycle will will continue.
>> Right now he can do whatever he wants.
He seems to have a line into the white
house that no one else has. It used to
be Tim Kirk. Now it's Jensen Wang.
What's changed in 8 years? I
>> I think it's just the importance of
where they stand right now, right? I
mean they are at the center of AI and
and the chips and and right now there
isn't any real competition to them. So
uh it's if in a way it's it's almost a
monopolistic nature. I mean we are
seeing some companies like Broadcom and
AMD coming back but still there he is
still the leader of of of the entire AI.
>> He seems to be able to convince the
administration though of his arguments
particularly with selling into China and
I think we saw that in the last week or
so.
>> Absolutely. You had an export demand on
the H20s in April. Then there was
another meeting between Jensen Wang and
the president a week later. He's off in
Beijing announcing on his blog that the
H20s are coming back. But this is
someone though who's spent a tremendous
amount of capital with this White House
as well. Remember, he was at every leg
of the Middle East tour. Tim Cook was
not.
>> Can you think of a CEO or a company
right now that has more power than
Nvidia and that man?
>> I I think you know he has been uh very
good at communicating with the
importance of AI, right? And I think uh
this is something that he continues to
pound on, you know, whenever he has an
opportunity. And I think part of it is
that you know the when he talks to to
all the leaders, political leaders, I
think they understand that more after
speaking to him.
>> Frank Lee of HSBC. Frank, appreciate it.
Thank you, sir. As Lisa said repeatedly,
got to wait another 10 years for
earnings from Nvidia August 27th.
>> Well, he does it on his own schedule. He
holds the keys to American
exceptionalism, so he can do whatever he
wants.
>> Apparently, he does and he will. Coming
up on the program, Eric Freriedman of US
Bank Asset Management, Anisha Sherman of
Bernstein, Claudia S of New Century
Adviserss, and Chris Harvey, the biggest
bull on Wall Street joined us about an
hour from now. From New York, the third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
[Music]
The only thing that's certain is
uncertainty. This whole rally has been
fought.
>> I don't think anybody's going to exit
the markets on concerns that that is a
certainty.
>> We're in the middle of a bull market. I
think it has been around for quite a
while, but it has legs to continue.
>> It's almost like chaos and uncertainty.
It's just a given and it's not holding
people back and the cyclical story can
continue to remain.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Looking for record highs about 90
minutes away from the opening bell on
the S&P 500 this morning. Futures are
largely positive. Likewise on the NASDAQ
and on the Russell as well. For the week
ahead, one thing sticks out this week.
It's the blackout period for the Federal
Reserve. They go quiet apart from one
man. They go quiet until the meeting
next week, next Wednesday. That one man
is Chairman Powell. He speaks this week.
In fact, he speaks tomorrow on the
regulatory capital framework. So, forget
all of that. What we're interested in is
if he pushes back in any way, shape, or
form against some of the headlines we've
seen over the past week.
>> Does he come out and say, "Look, I am
Fed Chair. No one has the ability to
fire me, including President Trump. Uh
the allegations around the renovations
will be dealt with by this appeals
board, but currently I am planning to
serve out my my term. Ultimately,
whatever she says regarding this issue
is going to be noteworthy, even though
it is out of the blackout period." It is
the story down in Washington DC in the
nation's capital that just won't die.
>> It won't die. And you have the Treasury
Secretary who likely will also be at
that conference tomorrow. So it' be
interesting potentially if these two
individuals see each other. Remember
what Scott Bessant told us. He thinks
that if the Fed chair were to stay on,
Jay Powell, and serve out his governor
term till 2028, that that would be
confusing for the markets and create a
fat a shadow Fed chair situation.
Basically what you have right now is
they want some clarity I think on
whether or not he is going to step aside
or remain at the Fed.
>> I agree with Bremo. I don't think it's
controversial to say it might be the
story that won't die but it's the story
that everybody is just about sick of
right now on Wall Street.
>> Yeah. I'm just thinking about uh that
conference and is it like the Jets and
the Sharks where like the best in crew
and the POW crew kind of walk by. Do
they still have lunch every week? It
sort of every other week every other
week. I mean, it sort of creates this
interesting dynamic between the two of
them when they're kind of pitted against
each other with Scott Besset talking
about the active search for his
replacement.
>> Next week's going to be interesting
dynamic. They sit around that table at
the Federal Reserve. Most people expect
them to keep rates unchanged. Perhaps
they will, but there could be some votes
in there, some disscent, including from
Governor Waller, who caught up with us
just last Friday.
>> So, how do they do it and keep the
economic high ground? And this was
something that Bob Michael really
alluded to. How do they cut rates or
indicate that they want to cut rates
while showing that there is enough
justification that makes it not just an
audition to be the next Fed chair? And I
think that that is one concern. Does any
fed chair who takes the position next
come with a lot of hair? I'm not talking
about a nice head of hair. I'm talking
about this idea that they're going to be
motivated to be more dovish and that is
how they got into the seat.
>> Governor Waller had a nice head of hair,
didn't he? He does. He's got lovely
hair.
>> Fantastic.
>> Futures positive by 210 of 1%. What you
laughing at? Okay, coming up this hour,
Eric Freriedman of US Bank Asset
Management with stocks climbing. Anisha
Sherman of Bernstein as consumer
sentiment hits a five-month high and
Chris Harvey of Wells Fargo with the
most bullish S&P 500 target on the
street. We begin this hour with stocks
rising ahead of big tech earnings out
this week. Eric Friedman of US Banks
Asset Management writing the following.
Markets are front running positive
outcomes with earnings, tariff outcomes,
and capital expenditures. We still see
some upside ahead of us. Eric joins us
now for more. Eric, welcome to the
program, sir. Since we last spoke, we
started to get some earnings. And since
we last spoke, we got those earnings and
this market didn't do much in response.
What do you make of the underwhelming
response to some pretty decent earnings
on Wall Street and beyond?
>> Yeah, to your point, Jonathan, it has
been underwhelming. I think if you look
at the the thought process from
investors like us, we're still waiting
to see what the employment market will
look like and number two, what happens
with capex. Those for us are the two big
variables that we think need to happen
to kind of push the markets higher from
here. We have a target for this year at
6325. That assumes, you know, a little
below consensus on earnings for this
year, a little below next year as well.
We start turning the page on 2026 in
about five or six weeks. That's the way
we kind of think through this earning
cycle. So, in general, I think the
thought process is simply this. This
economy is supposed to slow down this
quarter. We think it actually won't be
as sharp a slowdown as as consensus
thinks, but we also think the bounce in
Q4 and Q1 of next year will be positive.
That being said, what we need to have is
a bit more clarity on capital
expenditures. That for us is the
ultimate stir uh in the drink at the
moment.
>> Eric, it's one of my favorite questions.
Can you price the recovery to the
slowdown we haven't had yet? Can you?
Yeah, I I think it is something where
the slowdown, Jonathan, is really in the
eyes of what happens with consumers as
opposed to businesses. Businesses are
still in a really really good spot in
terms of flush balance sheets. Cash
flows are generally very strong, but
what we are seeing is still a hyper
promotional environment to get consumers
off the couch and actually outspending
money. If you look at the elasticity of
demand right now, not to go to
microeconomics, but there's a lot of
consumers who are looking for deals,
that's not new. It just continues. And
so the slowdown what we think will
happen if either companies become less
promotional, in other words, they
actually decide to pass through more of
their uh their tariff costs, if you
will, or if businesses just stop hiring.
And so those would be the two things
that thwart our glass half full
perspective. But in general, we think
the slowdown is has certainly been uh
falsely predicted for some time.
>> Eric, your view on markets is sort of
pro- risk, but sort of also a little
wary of the valuations and wanting to
sort of adjust things in real time to
try to capture that valuation mismatch
at any given time. What how would you
describe this investing environment?
this sort of very nuanced kind of
grinding higher sort of vaguely positive
but also wary moment that's very
different from some of the either all
the way up or all the way down that
we've seen over the past few years.
>> Yeah, at least I think you nailed it. I
mean, it is a very nuanced environment.
And so the way that we're approaching
this as investors is that look, we're
paid to to beat benchmarks. And so the
way we think we're going to do that is
by outy yielding them. And that's true
across both our equity portfolios, but
also what we're doing within fixed
income. So in this environment, you
know, we had the opportunity like every
investor to flinch during the the post
um you know, tariff announcements post
the uh the the the very uh you know,
back and forth episode with tariff
negotiations. We didn't, but we really
sold into strength. And so now the
question for us is, you know, at more of
a neutral equity posturing, what do we
do? We think that we want to own more
carry in terms of fixed income. We also
want to try to outy yield an equity
portfolio. So again, favoring
financials. Uh certainly still being
involved with big tech, but also owning
things like mid-stream energy that spit
off some reasonable cash flow for
investors. So to your point about
nuance, Lisa, this is not necessarily an
allcle environment where there's a great
directional bias from consumers,
especially those in the lower and middle
income levels. Those for us will be the
swing factors to propel us higher if in
fact that glass half full perspective
does does come to fruition. The one
directional trade of 2025 has been the
dollar and it has been a one-way uh
one-way move downward or weaker versus
all other major developed market
currencies. I wonder how uh that is how
essential that bet is to the ongoing
returns of equities in the way that
we've seen over the past couple of
months. At least at the risk of
pandering, I'm a huge fan of your your
Twitter feed. And I think if you look at
at with some of the great things you put
out is, you know, this notion of
correlation versus causation, uh, you
know, the equity market move, the crypto
move, the real asset move has at least
been correlated with a lower dollar. And
the fact that you still have the dollar
consolidating, you know, even after the
Japanese election results yesterday or
ongoing back and forth trade
negotiations with Europe, that suggests
to us that if the dollar cannot pick its
head above its, let's call it midJune
levels, that's that's a level that we
have not seen been able to surpass in
about four or five weeks. Of course,
that for us suggests that at least in in
the moment, the dollar is still going to
be a tailwind, a lower dollar, a
tailwind for more of the pro-risk assets
as markets determine just how strong
this bounce, if there is a bounce, will
actually endure. So, for us, we're
paying very close attention to, you
know, can the DXY
pick itself above the 200 day moving
average. If it does that, along with a
slowing labor market, that may actually
cause us to be a bit more cautious. But
for now, we think that the the bias
towards a lower dollar is likely intact.
>> And you like your international exposure
when it comes to Europe and Japan. How
are you thinking about potentially
though Europe and Japan having higher
tariff rates than when the president
came out and rolled back the April se
liberation day? Because right now it
looks like at least for EU it's going to
be higher than 10%. And Japan they are
still trying to get that 25% on autos
down and right now the US isn't buying
it.
>> Yeah. Yeah, and Marie, it's a great
point. I mean, the the fundamental
picture, if you look at the average
company in Europe, for example, look,
we're seeing an improvement in labor
laws, we're seeing a little more
mobility of labor. That's a good thing.
But to your point, there's only so much
that a company can traverse if tariff
costs go up above their ability to
actually either endure them or pass them
through to customers. So these next
couple of weeks, we think that August
1st deadline, we'll see if it actually
holds, but you know, the fact if you
look at some of the negotiations, again,
you've done you've done a nice job of
reporting on this, we're really into the
microeconomics of European US trade
right now. That for us is a bit of a
concern just in terms of the, you know,
again, at some point perhaps there's
just a throw the hands up in the air and
say, you know, we're done with this
micro look. We're just going to increase
the effective tariff rate above some
really high hurdle. That for us would be
a negative. So we think that for now the
fact there is still more back and forth
on micro is a good thing. The average
company fundamentals we think are
actually solid. But that being said, a
higher effective tariff, you know,
something, you know, 15 20% on a gross
basis across the board that for us would
be more concerning about our pro
international positioning right now.
>> Eric, stop being so nice. I've tried it.
Doesn't work.
>> What do you mean it doesn't work?
>> Every morning doesn't work.
>> What? You feel like you're bullying me
every commercial break? Oh, yeah.
>> Eric, thank you, sir. Hope for you all.
>> Eric Freriedman of US Bank asset
management with the latest. I want to
share this with you. Okay, got some
time. This came from Michael Arou out on
X. Here's the full quote. I'm not
actually sure where the full quote is
from, but here it is. People in the EU
are super wise. You have a meal with
some sort of French person who works in
Brussels. It's very impressive. They're
cultured. They have wonderful taste.
They understand all these different
countries. They know something about
Chinese porcelain. And if you lived in a
world ruled by them, the growth rate
would be negative 1%.
>> That's amazing. Well, that's kind of
been what's happened recently is that uh
you know the whole idea, right? The US
innovates, the uh China replicates.
>> China replicates and the European Union
regulates and that's what we've heard.
Thank you for for catching my lack of
mental capacity this morning. But there
has been a push though in the EU to
actually uh cause bank mergers and
actually allows for more of this. But
you're right,
>> change the culture.
>> The draggy report.
>> How do you do that though?
>> That's going to take a long time.
>> And what's wrong with knowing about
Chinese porcelain?
>> Absolutely nothing. Clearly, as
evidenced by that quote, you know, like
people are impressed by that.
>> Correct. But how do you translate that
into
>> you? You need to get beyond that and
actually do things that generate growth.
>> Right. Okay. Anyway, thought I'd share
that with you this morning. Equity
futures on the S&P up by 210 of 1%.
Quiet as you might have noticed. Let's
get you an update on news worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihira.
Heyra.
>> Hi, John. President Trump and Xiinping
are reportedly expected to meet at or
before the apex summit in October. The
South China Morning Post cites sources
saying Trump could make a stop in China
on his way to the summit in South Korea
or they could meet on the sidelines.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that Trump has been dialing down his
aggressive tone with China in hopes of
securing a meeting and a trade deal.
Meanwhile, EU officials will meet in the
coming days to discuss how to respond to
a possible no deal trade scenario with
President Trump. The move comes as the
US is said to be seeking tariffs on EU
goods higher than 10% with limited
exceptions. Like others, the EU faces an
August 1st deadline to strike a deal or
see higher tariffs. And Blackstone is
out. It has pulled out of a bid for a
stake in Tik Tok's US operations.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
firm has offered its potential share to
other investors in the consortium that
includes Oracle, Andre Horowitz, and
General Atlantic. Tik Tok is facing a
September deadline to find an American
owner or be banned in the US. That's
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yahara in
about 30 minutes. Up next, the morning
calls. Plus, Anisha Sherman of Bernstein
as consumer sentiment hits a fivemon
high. Live from New York, this is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
At certain point, you realize investors
are thinking a little bit differently
than you are and you adjust and move on.
And that's what we did with our target
raise last week. People felt like they
paid the price for whatever economic
wobbles we were going to have, whatever
inflation, you know, kind of challenges
we were going to have back in April. And
it was time to move on to 2026. As you
start hearing it from more and more
people, you know, of different
backgrounds, you realize you've got to
bake that into your thinking. And so
that's essentially what we did.
>> Tons of respect for Lori Calverina of
RBC joined us on the program a little
bit earlier. All of a sudden, this
market has shifted its emphasis and
focus beyond these deadlines around
trade, what could happen, what might not
happen with the Federal Reserve. It's
focused on earnings in 26 and beyond.
>> If you can't measure it, why even think
about it? If we're going to play a
headline roulette every single day and
get whips and be wrong, why not just
ignore it all and move on to what you do
know, which is the earnings and some of
the investment that we keep seeing.
>> Lori raised her price target. We'll
speak to a man who hasn't moved his
price target at all all year. Chris
Harvey of Wells Fargo later on the show.
the most bullish on the street north of
7K.
>> And he's been right. I mean, this is the
amazing thing. The question is, are we
getting to pretty lofty levels where we
have to see some of the earnings come
through and we are embarking on a pretty
massive earning season where maybe we
get a little bit more color other than
just headline roulette.
>> So far so good. On the earnings front,
equity futures this morning positive by
210 of 1% on the S&P, up by 210 also on
the NASDAQ. That's the price action.
Let's get you some morning calls. First
up, benchmark initiating coverage of GM
with a buy rating, saying its core
business remains resilient despite
tariff uncertainty. Their stock is up by
4/10en of 1%. Your second call from
Morgan Stanley raising his
recommendation on Pinterest to
overweight, citing improving
macroeconomic trends. And finally,
Barkclay is downgrading target to
underweight, citing weak trends among
the company's most frequent shoppers.
The stock is down by about 1.6%. Let's
stick with the retail and the US
consumer. Consumer sentiment hitting a
fivemonth high as the outlook for the
economy and inflation continues to
improve. Joining us around the table,
Bloomberg's Emily Co. Emily, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Things have started to turn around for
consumer sentiment and the outlook for
inflation as well. We saw that in the
data on Friday. What's driving that?
>> So, I think this is a little bit of a
consumers are not going to hold out
spending forever type thing. So consumer
sentiment peaked w was its worst at
after Trump made his worst tariff
threats. Now what we're seeing is a lot
of those threats that he made early on
haven't come to fruition yet. We're not
seeing um tariff u tariffs raise prices
as much as we worried that they might.
Um some of the more tariffs sensitive
categories prices are up toys,
furniture. Um but for the most part
consumers aren't going to hold back
spending forever. they're feeling a
little bit more comfortable. They're
spending again. I think the key here is
we still haven't seen the worst that
might come. And um we uh um consumers
like we just don't know might get worse.
>> This is what we're trying to figure out
as well, just how much of these
companies have been working through
pre-tariff inventory. how much of this
is about corporate resilience or whether
it's just the result of extensions and
exemptions and we haven't really seen
the tariff hit just yet
>> and depending on how you believe this to
be shaking out you'll get a sense of
whether you see it to be inflationary. I
think the thing that you pointed out
there though is really key which is the
idea of contracts in place that set
certain shipping rates. So you haven't
seen those trickle into the actual
pricing for companies in a large scale.
All of these things offsetting just
marginally uh in each particular
corporate story.
>> Is this a risk for Q3 Q4? How are you
thinking about the balance of risk for
the remainder of the year?
>> I think you're 100% right. I think a lot
of these companies bought a lot of their
inventory months ahead. So, a lot of the
inventory that we're selling right now,
maybe they had before the tariffs were
in place. I think what we're going to
watch is back to school shopping,
holiday sales, those are the types of
inventory that these companies have to
get a hold of um or had to have gotten a
hold of April, May, June when the tariff
threats were at their height. Um, and
we'll have to see if they begin to start
passing those prices along to consumers
more than they have to date.
>> Emily Con, it's good to see you.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Thanks for dropping by. Appreciate it.
Let's extend the conversation with
Anisha Sherman of Bernstein writing the
following. Secondary demand impacts
continue to be a risk as price increases
roll out particularly for lower income
exposed companies. Anisha joins us now
for more. Anisha, welcome to the
program. A lot of companies in your
coverage. Talk to us about the companies
right now that seem to be in a tough
spot.
Yeah. So they, you know, we have had
these August tariff announcements come
out. Um they are better than feared. So
we've seen some of the ST stocks rally,
but they are worse than the pause rates
that we're at currently. And so we
should see tariff impacts worsen across
the back half. Now the challenge is the
timing. So we're about to enter the Q2
earnings cycle. These August tariffs
don't impact Q2. Both on the supply side
because that August shipment inventory
is Q3 inventory and also on the demand
side, as your previous guest just said,
the price increases that are starting to
that started to roll out in June and are
ramping in July and will continue to
ramp in August are not going to
materially impact Q2 earnings. So, it's
really the back half earnings that are
at risk from a worsening tariff
environment compared to the pause rates.
and and we'll see because some of these
unmitigated impacts are kind of 100 to
250 basis points of gross margin
headwind on most of most of my coverage,
but that's the unmititigated impact. And
these companies have now had months and
months to work on mitigation efforts. So
the net impacts of those could be
smaller. So you know the net the net
message is it will be worse, but it
could be just slightly worse. It might
not be a doomsday scenario and we'll
have to see what the Q3 guidance looks
like and looks like and that's going to
be the main data point I'm looking for
in the earning cycle.
>> What have we learned so far? And I
realize it's very early in the earning
cycle, but we've heard from the likes of
Delta. We heard from Domino's doing
great with their stuffed crust pizza
this morning. I'm just wondering what
have we learned about consumer tolerance
for higher prices, consumer willingness
to keep spending, and their ability to
do so?
Yeah, it's interesting because we've
seen the we've seen this consumer
sentiment data get worse and worse,
right, up until this month, but we
haven't really seen an impact on
spending and really what's going on is
it's an anticip anticipatory sentiment
decline where consumers are reading the
news and the the headlines in the media.
They're worried about tariffs hitting
the price points, but we haven't seen
that happen yet. And so, we're seeing a
deterioration in sentiment and even now
July has gotten a bit better, but it's
still far worse than it was at the start
of the year. But we haven't seen that
translate into a spending pullback yet,
particularly for higher income consumers
who tend to be lower beta anyway and
they are less impacted by a change in
price points. I think that where we
might see the other shoe drop is
depending on the magnitude of the price
increases, we could then see a pullback
in actual spending. So that has not
happened yet and and I don't think it
happens in Q2 either because like I
said, those price increases have barely
started towards the end of Q2. So late
June and July is when those price
increases are going to start to ramp. So
we could see it in Q2 exit rates for
some of the retailers that end their
quarter at the end of July. But really
where we're going to see it is in early
Q3. So the commentary on around quarter
to date Q3 trading Q3 guidance and data
points around most recent consumer
trends. That's where we're going to
start to see the demand impacts we
haven't seen yet.
>> Governor Waller was on on Friday and he
was talking about the impact of tariffs
and he said it's a third across the
board. suppliers hit a third, firms hit
a third, and the consumer absorbs a
third. Is that how you view how it's
distributed across the supply chain?
>> Not yet. So far, what we've seen is
suppliers have borne the brunt of it.
And we've talked to many suppliers that
that sell to some of the big um general
retailers here in the US, and they've
said those retailers have just pushed
back on suppliers and said, "You guys
need to bear the brunt of this." And
remember, the retailers are in a
bargaining much better bargaining
position here. They have diversified
supply chains across multiple markets
across thousands of suppliers. So they
can afford to do that. As those tariff
rates now increase, so comparing the
August 1 rates versus the pause rates,
that next leg up is going to be borne by
retailers and consumers. So so far it's
been disproportionately pushed to
suppliers as companies have tried to do
cost side mitigation and not pricing
side mitigation. That balance is going
to shift. So I don't know if it will be
fully a third absorbed by retailers. I
think the retailers are going to try to
pass them up and down the supply chain
and on to consumers, but I do think that
that rough proportionate split is right.
So far, it's been very supplier
absorbed. That's going to shift.
>> Anisha, always a clinic with you.
Appreciate your time this morning. Thank
you. Anisha Sherman there of Bernstein
reflecting what many expect later this
summer, which is prices firming up. Got
a hint of it in CPI just last week. A
lot of people think it will continue.
The debate is whether it continues to be
on that, whether it just fades beyond
that. And I'm pleased you brought up
Governor Waller because he makes two
assumptions. One, a large share of
tariff increases won't be passed through
to the consumer. But two, increases
would fade over the next year or so. And
that's the ultimate call for the Federal
Reserve. Do you look through it and
carry on your business?
>> And a lot of it hinges on wage growth.
And that's what we heard Bob Michael
talk about. And if you don't see that
labor market pressure and the tightness
in the labor market that leads to that
kind of wage growth, you aren't going to
see consumers really doubling down and
accepting those higher prices. I just
look at Domino's and pizzas are, you
know, $10. So if you buy more of them,
what's the only thing that could make a
perfect pizza even more perfect?
>> There's better pizza in New York. I'm
going to take you to Arthur Avenue. But
the Michigan survey on Friday, I know
Governor Waller just calls it that
thing, that Michigan thing, but actually
the sentiment was up even on that thing.
And he makes this case that you can just
look through this tariff impacts. Even
if it hits a consumer, it's just going
to be a third.
>> Is that your favorite pizza? Arthur
Avenue.
>> Well, it's the best Italian food in New
York.
>> Okay.
>> It's good, but you know, across stuffed
full of cheese. All right.
>> It is. It's quite basic. Ruby roast
Malbury Street.
>> Ooh.
>> Yeah.
>> They have gluten-free pizza. Fantastic
pizza. Okay. Good tonight.
[Music]
60 minutes away from the open and bal
equity futures doing okay, positive by
210 of 1%. Let's get you some morning
movers this morning. Let's cross over to
Danny Burgerer for more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Some more earnings this
morning. Cleveland Cliffs, that is the
steel maker shares are higher in the
pre-market reported a loss of 50 cents
per share. That is better than what's
expected. Maybe it's the look forward.
the CEO talking about how tariffs on the
steel industry are going to be helping
them and other domestic manufacturers.
So, they're really seeing that start to
play out now. So, again, those shares up
6 and a3%. We also heard from Verizon in
the past hour. Those shares up 4% an
upgrade for their fullear outlook also
for free cash flow beating because they
say of tax reforms, strong businesses,
and they also were able to raise prices
when it comes to their wireless
business. Finally rounding things out
with Tesla just pointing out that it is
gaining ahead of its earnings report on
Wednesday 1.6% possibly helping things
out this morning too. Elon Musk was out
on X yesterday saying that he's back to
seven days a week in the office and
sleeping in the office when his little
kids aren't around. So it's perhaps that
recommitment to his companies uh and
away from politics that investors like
John.
>> The work ethic of that man unbelievable.
Tesla positive by 1.6%. Danny, thank
you. Let's turn to the week ahead. Busy
week of earnings that kicks off on
Wednesday with Alphabet and Tesla. Lots
of economic data as well. Look out for
another round of jobless claims on
Thursday. And interestingly, we're going
to get a speech from Fed Chair Jay Pow.
We'll get that speech tomorrow.
Bloomberg might be key joins us now for
more. Michael, as you know, we're in the
quiet period from the Fed. Uh what can
we expect from Chairman Pal?
>> Not a whole lot. This is a conference on
banking regulation, the uh Basel 3
agreement and the SLR and things like
that. Um this is not going to make any
news. He's not going to be able to
comment on anything to do with the
economy or monetary policy. Vice Chair
Mickey Bowman speaking at the same
conference. As you mentioned, it is a
kind of quiet week otherwise and we hate
to get people's hopes up. But the
breaking news today is J. pal is at the
moment still the Fed chair and we
haven't heard from Donald Trump about
that in 24 hours. So, we'll see how the
rest of the week goes. As you mentioned,
we do have uh those speeches tomorrow.
We've got the leading indicators index
which we have all forgotten about
because in 37 of the last 41 months, it
has been negative. So, it's been
signaling recession for 37 months out of
the last 41. And we haven't gotten it.
So, nobody really cares that much about
that. But that used to be a big number.
Existing home sales and new home sales
also on the calendar this week along
with as you mentioned the jobless claims
numbers and we get S&P PMIs on Thursday.
Uh we'll see what they tell us about
next week's uh ISM number. Uh the one
thing that's interesting to watch here
is even though the president may or may
not have backed off of Jay Powell, the
markets are still a little bit
concerned. If you look at the 10-year
note yield, it is above where it was
before the president uh last thought
last suggested that he is going to fire
Jay Powell. So, there's still some
concern in the bond market about that.
Everybody will be keeping an eye on uh
the president's social media feeds and
our headlines to see if anything changes
in that regard this week.
>> Mike McKe, next week, let's talk about
next week. You'll be in the room with
Fed Chair J. Pal next Wednesday. How
much of that news conference is just
going to be about that man's future?
>> I don't think a lot. And and only
because Paul has been very clear that
he's not going to talk about it. He's
going to probably just tell us uh he's
not quitting and uh if the president
tries to do something, they'll sue. What
will be interesting though is to see the
breakdown of the vote and see if Chris
Waller, a candidate for Fed chair,
dissents and if Mickey Bowman, who has
also said July might be a good month to
have a rate cut, also dissents and
suggests some sort of uh rebellion
against the Fed chair.
>> Michael McKe, thank you, sir. Looking
forward to your coverage over the next
week. Just a little tip for anyone going
to that news conference with Chairman
Pal. He likes the one-word answer. Have
a spare question. Okay. Just so you can
come back at them again. Maybe have
another one after that so you can come
back again.
>> Yeah. Or you could do open-ended
questions. Are you concerned about Fed
independence? Do you think that this is
going Okay. All right. Hold on a second.
And then do you think that right now
that affects the way you communicate and
the fact that the market is taking a
very different communication?
>> No. Right. I mean, but then you just I
imagine people trying
>> I'm totally with you. We explored this
with Governor Waller last week and I
think it's a really important question
whether we're seeing this pressure lead
to a deanchoring of inflation
expectations because people do think
central bank independence is being
eroded. Now we don't see any sign of
that at the moment at least not in a
major way but I wonder if that would
contribute to how they do communicate in
the coming months whether it makes them
ultimately just that little bit more
hawkish.
>> Exactly. Because otherwise you could ask
well why not cut 25 basis points if you
don't see this really affecting
inflation expectations at this stage.
You can ask all these questions and then
say okay but what about the political
potential ramifications and how much is
that stying that decision?
>> Mike talked about a rebellion
potentially from Governor Waller and
Mickey Bowman. Is it a rebellion or what
Governor Waller said around this table
on Friday which was you should have
diversity of thought. This is a
deliberative body. We don't need to all
move in this think tank setting where we
all move at the same pace and in the
same direction. There should be debate.
So if he comes out with a disscent, it's
going to be a real debate. The question
is, can he bring the rest of the board
over with him?
>> The descent is healthy. It's unhealthy
if you think every single disscent is
just driven by someone who's motivated
to become the next Fed chair. That's
problematic.
>> That's exactly it. So there could be
legitimate arguments economically, but
do they get overshadowed by some of the
political noise? And that's one of the
ramifications of really having this
ongoing,
>> but also Trump isn't calling him yet. He
still has this veneer of being super
independent in the sense that Trump has
not reached out to him yet. He said that
at his speech in New York and he said
that here on Friday.
>> Let's continue the conversation. Claudia
S of New Century Advisers joins us now
for more. Claudia, welcome back to the
show. It's good to see you as always.
Want to pick up on that speech from
Governor Waller. What he said before our
conversation with him. Looking across
the soft and hard data, I get a picture
of a labor market on the edge. Do you
get a picture of a labor market on the
edge?
>> That's not how I would characterize the
labor market, but I think Governor
Waller lays out a very reasonable
argument for reading the data right
there. There the labor market has some
has some cracks, has some weaknesses to
it. I mean, I think they were maybe more
apparent last year, you know, the
unemployment rate had been rising. Uh,
but he he paints a picture and he he
ties it to data. Again, I think it's
really unfortunate that it becomes
wrapped in this conversation of is this
a politicized view of his. I I don't see
it that way, but just to have that kind
of injected in the conversation does
does tend to undermine what he's saying.
>> Claudia, do you think from your
perspective in your years of experience
studying the labor market and how that
affects Fed policy? Do you think that
right now a weakening in the labor
market really is a greater concern than
a prolonged protracted inflationary push
from the tariffs and from strength that
we have seen ongoing in corporate
America?
>> So I would agree that there are several
threats on the growth side to policies
that have been put in place. I mean
tariffs have an aspect of of weakening
growth through the higher prices. We've
seen immigration policy. I mean there's
a whole set of reasons why you'd look
out at this year and we've seen growth
slow this year and that'll eventually
show up in the labor market. So you
definitely can see those risks and it
and if one as as Christopher Waller lays
out looks at the potential inflation
risk and says these are temporary we can
look through these then I think it would
be right back to where we were you know
in 2019 where the Federal Reserve faced
with tariffs they cut preemptively. It's
just we're not in an environment where
inflation is subdued. It's actually been
above target for more than four years.
There are real risks there. We still
don't know what the tariff policy
actually is. It could be going higher.
It could not like so there's just a lot
of uncertainty I think with the way that
the kind of majority of the Fed is
lining up their arguments makes a lot of
sense. But there is a real perspective
and I would agree that the diversity of
thought on the Fed and making those
arguments carefully with data like
that's a good thing. It's just it is
extremely unfortunate the environment by
having the White House and the president
very directly say what they want to see
in terms of rates has kind of created
this you know it's made it really
difficult for the Fed to have this kind
of discipline data conversation
>> and it's even more difficult by the fact
that the data is really confusing and it
can paint a different story depending on
how you read it. I mean, we keep kind of
wondering what the labor market is
showing us, whether it does show some
sort of more dramatic weakening or
whether the housing market is kind of
ringing a five alarm fire alarm saying,
"Hey, we're clearly as a problem." I
mean, at what point do you think that
keeping rates at this level would really
create a weakness that currently hasn't
manifested itself in the economy?
>> We're we're likely pointed in that
direction. I mean the the economy has
proven quite resilient. I mean this is
not just talking about this year but in
recent years to the higher interest
rates and there are probably a lot of
different reasons for that but
eventually you know we and we do see an
interest rate s sensitive sectors like
housing we do see these rates weighing
down. The question the reason that the
federal funds rate is elevated is
because it is trying to push down on
inflation. Once the inflation issue is
taken care of, well then there's no
reason to have these the rates as high
as they are and you should see them
coming down and the Fed tells us that's
the direction they're pointed in.
They're just not ready to take that
move. But but you know there are costs
there are costs in the economy to the
Fed having interest rates as high as
they are and and we will see those costs
build as interest rates stay higher. So
but but it's but we're not looking at
some dramatic falling off a cliff. we're
looking at more of a slow grind and it
does impact certain parts of the
economy, certain consumers, people
trying to buy homes. Like that is where
the effect is, but the goal is to get,
you know, inflation down. Unfortunately,
you know, we've gotten data that it's,
you know, moving in the wrong direction.
That may be temporary, but like there's
a reason that rates are where they are.
It's not uh um
>> you know, like but there are costs.
>> Governor Waller though is looking at
these cracks in the labor market. Even
individuals like Mary Daly is talking
about it's reasonable to expect two cuts
this year. Claudia, when do you expect
the Fed to first move?
>> So it will absolutely depend on the data
as they go forward, but there there is
certainly a case and I think you know
keep an eye on the inflation data that's
not connected to tariffs. I mean I think
that's actually been part of the
encouraging case is that we've seen some
weakness in uh you know some
discretionary spending areas and housing
has certainly shown some cooling off.
So, I think they're building the the
data are building the case as long as
you know the tariff risks don't really
like move much higher. You know, things
really go dramatically sideways. I think
they're on track for September or
October. Um, you know, as the data come
in and Governor Waller could absolutely
be correct that we see some employment
numbers that are not as positive as
recent ones and that does move them much
more quickly uh to to the cut. But I
think this is the data thus far have
supported their let's wait and see and I
think that's where they're going to come
down as a group next week. But of
course, you know, you can look at the
data differently and they are pointed in
the direction of cuts and some aren't
even looking for them this year. But I
mean that's you know they have a lot of
coherence in what they're uh thinking.
It's just timing is hard. That's really
hard to figure out because timing is
hard in the economy.
>> Claudia, I appreciate your time as
always. Claudia Sound there of New
Century Advisors. Just to echo
everything Claudia said, particularly at
the end there, the bias is still to
reduce interest rates at the Federal
Reserve. That is still the direction of
travel
>> and that would have been even without
the pressure from the White House and I
think that that's really the the
important point here. How do you message
it now and how much does it get
complicated by the political overlay
that currently exists?
>> Agree with her also that it's super
unfortunate that this is where we are.
the credible arguments for lower
interest rates are just being basically
accused of ambition, ambitious goals to
become the next Fed chair.
>> Yeah. Especially because a lot of
economists on Wall Street have been
making the same arguments for quite a
while and that I think really goes to
the heart of the legitimacy behind a lot
of these arguments.
>> Let's see if we get some healthy descent
at next week's meeting. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Back with us,
here's Yahihara. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. Microsoft server software was
exploited by unidentified hackers. The
US Cyber Security and Infrastructure
Security Agency said they accessed file
systems and internal configurations.
While Microsoft said it released a new
security patch to mitigate the attacks,
the Washington Post is reporting US
federal and state agencies are among
those affected. Meanwhile, a Delta
Airlines jet was forced to abort landing
to avoid a midair collision with a B-52
bomber. The incident happened last week
in North Dakota near an Air Force base.
Citing the pilot, ABC News reported the
plane had to make an aggressive
go-around maneuver as the other aircraft
became visible. ABC News also says that
afterward the pilot apologized to
passengers.
And President Trump is threatening to
block the Washington commander bid to
build a new stadium in DC. The president
says he won't make a deal unless the
team changes its name back to the
Redskins, a term considered offensive to
Native Americans, but Trump claims
there's a big clamoring from them to
restore the old name. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhierra, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next, we'll set you up for
the day and a week ahead. Plus, we'll
catch up with Chris Harvey of Wells
Fargo with the most bullish S&P 500
target on the street. That conversation
up next.
[Music]
I don't see 10-year yields at 5%. I
think they belong at 5%. And that's the
great puzzle that they're not there.
That's telling us that there's constant
demand for government bonds. There's
constant demand for the bond market out
there. Every time I meet with investors,
they're trying to figure out where to
get into the bond market.
>> Bob Michael of JP Morgan Asset
Management on the program a little bit
earlier this morning. In the market
right now, equity futures positive,
bonds are two, yields are lower, futures
are up by 210 of 1% and your bond market
looks like this. Twos, 10 and 30s. Your
30-year yield is south of 5%. We're down
six on the session to 492. Your tenure
is 436. Bob Michael saying, I don't see
the 10ear at 5%. He sees reasons that
they belong there, but he doesn't see
them getting there,
>> which shows the incredible bid for bonds
and how globally there's this incredible
demand. I would argue that what we're
seeing today is a bit of the Japan
effect and how we're getting knee uh
whips by the fact that it's not as bad
as it could have been with sort of
fiscal irresponsibility potentially
maybe on the Japanese side but you know
he's making an argument for bonds. Let's
see what happens if the Fed cuts by 50
basis points.
>> You think the Fed cuts 50 basis points?
>> No, I don't think so. But I'm worth
exploring that
>> like just basically counterfactual on
this Monday morning that
>> if they went 50 next week for instance,
what would happen to the long end? It
would probably you'd see yields up,
you'd see price down in a significant
way and it would raise questions about
independence
>> which is what we saw at the back end
correct
>> of last year. Futures this morning then
just about positive by two ten of 1%.
The bond market doing okay. Thank you
Japan. According to Lisa, Japan in the
driver's seat in many ways over the past
few weeks in fixed income worldwide.
That's the price action. Your week ahead
is shaping up as follows. Coming up a
little bit later in the week, we'll hear
from Fed share J Pal speaking at the
FOMC's regulatory conference. Onto
Wednesday, results from Tesla and
Alphabet. On Thursday, a rate decision
from the ECP and earnings from Intel and
American Airlines, plus another round of
jobless claims. And then on Friday,
going into the weekend, durable goods.
Let's stay on the market. Stocks trading
near all-time highs. Chris Harvey of
Wells Fargo, the most bullish man on
Wall Street. S&P 500 price target of
7,07. And he joins us now for more. Good
morning, Chris.
>> Good morning.
>> You uncomfortable with that?
>> I want to give you some credit before we
start. credit to you for not changing
this call in the tariff storm of early
April. So let's start there. Why did you
stick with it?
>> So 9 months in the financial market
that's an eternity.
>> The other thing we had seen Trump 1.0.
We know his style. It's to go out to the
end degree and then to come back in.
Furthermore, the underlying fundamentals
were still fine and our EPS and our
price target wasn't predicated on a
strong economy. What we're seeing is the
winners continue to win. The Uber cap
companies have the higher margins are
gaining more market share. There is a
real secular trade in AI that will
continue. I was here during the 90s.
This is not this is not a fair
comparison. It is much stronger and the
fundamentals are much better than today
than they were back then.
>> 7K is not tariff dependent. It is not
August one dependent.
>> No, it so people ask what's the fear?
The fear is a there's a couple fears.
One is do tariffs start to flare back up
and that's possible, right? We just
can't can't predict that. The other fear
which is a a much more real fear is
what's happening with the Fed. Do we
worry about the Fed and confidence in
the Fed? Because the back and forth
between the Fed and the White House,
that's not healthy, right? And that that
can cause problems in the bond market
and that can cause problems with
confidence. But overall, we're starting
to see M&A activity kick up. We think
that M&A will continue to be very very
healthy up and down the capitalization.
We do think the Fed's going to cut.
Fundamentals are fine. and the consumer
is okay and we're not seeing the kind of
price increases that people are talking
about. We're seeing people say surgical
when they're talking about price
increases and selectively.
>> So there's a lot to unpack there and
we'll get into the Fed independence in
just a second and what point yields have
to rise to before that really triggers
some sort of response in equity markets.
What about valuations? the idea that
you're talking about an 11% gain from
where we are right now on the S&P 500
after already reaching record highs amid
a wall of worry and frankly growth that
is expected to slow
>> right so we talk about this all the time
because people say oh look at 20 years
ago look at at 25 years ago the S&P is
not the same as it was 25 years ago the
constituent the S&P 500 is much more
growthy it's much more techy the the
multiples are much higher the
productivity is much better the people
running the companies are much more uh
attuned and and and the acumen is much
higher and so the valuation yes it's
high but it's justified in our minds and
again we don't need to see a whole lot
of multiple expansion to get to that
level we're not very far from that level
at this point in time
>> so valuation concerns don't really uh
spend you don't spend a lot of time on
those I do want to go to the Fed
independent side though there is a
question of what point yields have to
rise to before it triggers true concern
in stock markets because we've asked
that questions many time. People give us
a level and then we pass that level and
stock markets shrug it off and say
healthy healthy good.
>> Yeah. I I I it's hard for me to really
answer that question. The I I think
what's happening right now is you had
Trump come out and say I'm not going to
fire Powell, right? And I think he needs
to go out and say that, right? There's a
lot of talk and and uh rumors and and
situations in the marketplace. At the
end of the day, we need the Fed. We need
the Fed to be independent. We need to be
the Fed to be apolitical because it is a
very important part of our marketplace
and as long as we can do that that's
great. I don't know if rates really have
a play in this. I think it's just cooler
heads need to prevail.
>> You read Trump correctly when it comes
to tariffs. He put out a truth over the
weekend about what Bessant potentially
laid out to him when it comes to the
market impact of firing Besset. People
don't explain to me. I explained to them
says the president of the United States.
Did you take that as him basically
acknowledging he understands the
negative impacts that could have on
financial markets?
>> I I think he I think his team
understands. I think he understands. Uh
I think if you go back and and one of um
when we were on the show a while ago, we
were talking about will the feedback
loop close, right? Will the
administration see what's happening in
the capital markets and react to that?
And they did. So I I do think they
understand, but I also think that he
feels like he's playing with a very
strong hand and to a certain degree he
is. And and one of the things we are
beginning to worry about is he's looking
at tariffs as a a revenue generator,
right? We have what we have with with
the deficit and saying, "Hey, this could
be a good way to to reduce the deficit.
We haven't seen the real impact to the
economy. What's the big deal?"
>> In that same truth, he said if it
weren't for him, the market wouldn't be
at record highs right now, but if it
weren't for him would potentially
already be at your 707
uh mark.
>> Yeah, there's a lot of speculation on
speculation there. Um I I think we could
have done this. Um talk talk in my book.
One of the things I I said, one of the
things I believe is you could have put a
10% tariff on and then just walked away,
right? We talked about how there was a
sellers tariff and how how people um
whether it's through Airbnb or Amazon,
they understand it. You had Congress put
that 10% tariff on, walk away, and we
can do something more productive. But uh
we chose this path and it's it's okay.
It's a little bit bumpy, but we're
getting there.
>> Might get bumpier. Peter Shiv Academy.
Without the markets pressuring the
administration, why would they pull back
going into next month?
>> Well, this to me is the key question.
How much is this administration playing
chicken on tariffs with the market? If
the market's looking past something that
hasn't happened yet, does that push them
to potentially go even harder because
they could extract more that could
offset the deficit concerns from the one
big beautiful bill? And there we go. And
you see these countries lining up to
really want to do deals and getting a
little bit nervous when you have Howard
Lutnik, the commerce secretary, coming
on Sunday shows saying August 1st is is
hard to stop deal. Also, he's already
telling us what to expect next year. He
said, "Of course, we're going to
renegotiate USMCA so we could prepare
for more headwinds in terms of Canada,
Mexico, and the United States."
>> It's going to keep coming. It's going to
keep coming. Chris, just to wrap it up,
the US versus the rest of the world.
What have you made to that debate over
the years so far?
>> So, we thought that was possible. We
thought that was probable early in the
year. It happened. Now we're just
walking away. We just don't. We're done.
We're good. You had that repricing. Now
let's go back to fundamentals. And the
fundamentals are telling you back to the
US, back to back to growth.
>> Chris Haly of West Fargo. Appreciate it,
sir. Thanks for being here. It lasted
how long? 5 months, 6 months.
>> Always a tourist in Europe. That seems
to be what it is, whether it's markets
or whether it's otherwise.
>> That's beautiful.
>> Thank you.
>> You should frame that. That's a
fantastic quote. Well, I mean, that's
sort of how it feels to me. And people
sort of get excited about the prospects
of growth and then they head over there
and experience the regulation and some
of the other hang-ups with certain labor
market structures and then they come
back here and that's been what it's been
going on for a while.
>> Always a tourist in Europe, Brammo July
2125. Coming up tomorrow, Mskin of Man
Your Life, John Hancock, Russ Brambach
of Black Rockck, Dan Nars of Nars
Investment Management, Andrew Henhorse
of City. From all of us, thank you for
choosing Bloomberg TV from New York
City. This was Bloomberg surveillance.
[Music]